.TH ashdata "2rwl" "August 2023" "RWP*Load Simulator" "Table definition"
.SH NAME
ashdata \- RWP*Load Simulator ashdata table
.SH DESCRIPTION
The ashdata table is used by the standard oltp workload and contains all ash samples
for each run.
.SH DECLARATION
.nf
\fC
create table ashdata
( runnumber number not null
, second number not null
, cpu number
, e1 number
, e2 number
, e3 number
, e4 number
, e5 number
, e6 number
, e7 number
, e8 number
, other number
, constraint ashdata_pk primary key(runnumber, second)
)
\fR
.fi
.SH COLUMNS
\fBrunnumber\fR
.RS 4
The primary key of the rwlrun table.
.RE
.P
\fBsecond\fR
.RS 4
The number of seconds into the run when the ash sample was taken.
.RE
.P
\fBcpu\fR
.RS 4
The count of sessions that are on cpu in that particular sample.
.RE
.P
\fBe1 e2 ... e8\fR
.RS 4
The count of sessions that are waiting on some explicitly named wait event.
.RE
.P
\fBother\fR
.RS 4
The count of sessions that are waiting on any other wait event.
.RE
.P
.SH NOTES
Whenever a run terminates normally, all ash samples that are taken every second
are inserted into this table.
The top eight wait events during the whole run will have counts in the e1 until e8
columns, and the rwlash table contains the actual wait event names.
.P
As an example, if the top wait event in any run is 'log file sync' and the second
most frequent wait event is 'cell single block physical read', the e1 and e2 columns
in this table contains the number of sessions that in some particular sample were
waiting on these two wait events.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2023 Oracle Corporation
.P
Licensed under the Universal Permissive License v 1.0
as shown at https://oss.oracle.com/licenses/upl
.SH "SEE ALSO"
rwlrun(1rwl), rwlash(2rwl)
