.TH awreport "2rwl" "January 2022" "RWP*Load Simulator" "Utilities Syntax"
.SH NAME
awreport \- Create an awr or ash report
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBawreport -l u/p@c [options]\fR
.P
List available awr repositories or create an actual awr or ash
report.
You normally start with only the -l option to 
identify the database, instance and snapshot 
ranges available.
After having identified this, you can user other options 
to actually generate an awr or ash report.
.P
.SH OPTIONS
.B -l u/p
.br
.B -l u/p@c
.RS 4
Compulsory option to provide the username, password, and potentially
connect string for a database connection that provides access to
a login with access to various the dba_ views containing the awr
repository.
If you omit /p, rwloadsim will prompt for the password.
.RE
.P
.B --dbid=<dbid>
.RS 4
Without this option, provide a list of all available databases
with the dbid in the awr repository.
The list will indicate if the database is a root of a cdb, a
pdb, or an imported awr dump.
With this option, list snapshots available in the database with
the chosen dbid.
This option is required to generate awr or ash report.
.RE
.P
.B --instance=<instance>
.RS 4
Limit the list of available snapshots to one particular instance
or provide an instance for awr/ash generation.
.RE
.P
.B --fromtime=YYYY.MM.DDTHH24:MI
.br
.B --totime=YYYY.MM.DDTHH24:MI
.RS 4
Limit the list of snapshot to a date range; either or both options
can be provided.
Note that dates must be in the exact format shown, which is also
the format used when outputting lists of snapshots.
You can omit the : and MI or the T and the entire time part.
.P
These options are also required when generating an ash report.
.RE
.P
.B --no-headings
.RS 4
In the various lists, do not output headings.
.RE
.P
.B --output-text
.RS 4
If generating an awr or ash,
the output will be in text (ASCII) format.
The default is html format.
.RE
.P
.B --output-file=<filename>
.RS 4
If generating an awr or ash,
the output is written to a file with default name based on the input.
Use this option to specify a different filename.
.RE
.P
.B --output-directory=<directory>
.RS 4
By default, the output is written in your current directory.
Use this option to specify a different directory.
.RE
.P
\fB--begin-snap=N\fR
.br
\fB--end-snap=N\fR
.RS 4
.P
If the --begin-snap option is provided an awr report will be created
with that begin snapshot and and end snapshot 1 higher, unless 
the --end-snap option is used to specify a different end snapshot.
This requires --dbid and --instance as well.
.RE
.P
\fB--ash-slot-width\fR
.RS 4
.P
Generate an ash report using the slot width (in seconds).
All of --dbid, --instance, --fromtime, --totime a are needed as well.
.RE
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
awreport -l system/{password}
.fi
.P
which may generate an output like:
.P
.nf
       dbid con snap cnt instance list
----------- --- -------- -------------
  607296874  /       408 1,2
 4001460110        12321 1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8
.fi
.P
This tells that there is data from two databases available in
the repository.
The first one is a root in a container with a total of 408
snapshots available for instances 1 and 2.
The second database is from an imported awr dump with 12321
snapshots available from instances 1 until 8.
.P
The next step would be to provide a dbid such as:
.P
.nf
awreport --dbid=607296874 -l system/{password} 
.fi
.P
which may generate an output like this:
.P
.nf
i#  losnap  hisnap  snaps       losnap_end      hisnap_end
-- ------- ------- ------ ---------------- ---------------
 1    6688    6891    204 2022.04.04T20:00 2022.04.13T07:00
 2    6688    6891    204 2022.04.04T20:00 2022.04.13T07:00
.fi
.P
To see all available snapshots in some specific time range, you could then do
.P
.nf
awreport --fromtime=2022.04.05T08:00 --totime=2022.04.05T18:00 --dbid 607296874 -l system/{password} 

i#     snap    snap_end_time   instance_start
--  ------- ---------------- ----------------
 1     6700 2022.04.05T08:00 2021.12.09T08:25
 1     6701 2022.04.05T09:00 2021.12.09T08:25
 1     6702 2022.04.05T10:00 2021.12.09T08:25
 1     6703 2022.04.05T11:00 2021.12.09T08:25
 1     6704 2022.04.05T12:00 2021.12.09T08:25
  ...
 2     6707 2022.04.05T15:00 2021.12.09T08:31
 2     6708 2022.04.05T16:00 2021.12.09T08:31
 2     6709 2022.04.05T17:00 2021.12.09T08:31
 2     6710 2022.04.05T18:00 2021.12.09T08:31
.fi
.P
You can finally create an awr report as a html file in the /var/www/html/awrs
directory by doing something like:
.P
.nf
awreport --output-directory=/var/www/html/awrs --instance=1 --dbid=607296874 -l system/{password} --begin-snap=6702
.fi
.P
An example of how to generate an ash report as a text file is:
.P
.nf
awreport --output-text --instance=3 --output-file=ash.txt --dbid 4001460110 -l system/{password} --fromtime=2022.04.02T22:20 -totime=2022.04.02T22:30 --ash-slot-width=30
.fi
.SH NOTES
If you are using the full distribution of rwloadsim, awreport is an executable shell script
in the bin directory that calls rwloadsim with the -u option getting awreport.rwl from
the public directory.
As a stand alone binary distribution, awreport is an executable with the awreport.rwl code
embedded.
.SH BUGS
There is currently no support to create a global (RAC) awr report.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2022 Oracle Corporation
.br
Licensed under the Universal Permissive License v 1.0
as shown at https://oss.oracle.com/licenses/upl
.SH "SEE ALSO"
rwloadsim(1rwl), ashplot(2rwl), utilities(2rwl)
