.TH connping "2rwl" "July 2022" "RWP*Load Simulator" "Utilities Syntax"
.SH NAME
connping \- Find logon and ping rates over a database connection
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBconnping -u -l u/p@c [--no-timestamp] [--csvoutput=file] [--interval=N] [--period=N] [--flush-output] [--flush-csv] [--unixepoch] [--utctime] [--utcformat=fmt] [--csvexcel] \fR
.P
The connping utility executes something similar to ping
showing the times to establish a connection, and to do a
roundtrip over that connection respectively using OCIPing and a simple query against
dual.
You can use ociping(2rwl) to only show the time for OCIPing.
.SH OPTIONS
.B -l u/p
.br
.B -l u/p@c
.RS 4
Compulsory option to provide the username, password, and potentially
connect string for a database connection.
If you omit /p, rwloadsim will prompt for the password.
.RE
.P
.B --interval=N
.RS 4
The interval (in seconds) between each ping; default 1s.
.RE
.P
.B --period=N
.RS 4
The period in seconds to run ping; default 60s.
.RE
.P
.B --no-timestamp
.RS 4
Do not include time-stamps (in seconds) in output.
.RE
.P
.B --csvoutput=file
.RS 4
Output timestamp (unless --no-timestamp) and the five values separated by space to the named file.
.RE
.P
.B --flush-output
.br
.B --flush-csv
.RS 4
These will flush respectively stdout and the csv file after each line.
This is e.g. useful if you send stdout to a pipeline using the tee command, or if you are 
running tail -f of the csvfile.
.RE
.P
.B --unixepoch
.RS 4
Timestamps will be output in seconds since the UNIX epoch.
.RE
.P
.B --utctime
.RS 4
Timestamps will be output as UTC time in format YYYY.MM.DD.HH24:MI:SS.FF2
unless the next option is also provided.
.RE
.P
.B --utcformat=formatstring
.RS 4
If --utctime is in effect, use an alternative format string, which musts comply with
the requirements of the Oracle TO_CHAR function.
.RE
.P
.B --csvexcel
.RS 4
If a csv file is being generated, the header line will not have an initial '#', the
field separator will be ';' and the file will have CRLF line terminators.
It it suggested to also use --utctime --utcformat='YYYY/MM/DD HH24:MI:SS'.
.P
.SH USAGE
When executing, it will show the three times mentioned in addition to
session id and instance number until
the run period is over and at the end, show averages,
standard deviation, min and max values.
The time output is in ms.
You can kill execution prematurely by typing ctrl-c.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
connping --no-timestamp --period=10 -ul username/{password}

RWP*Load Simulator Release 3.0.2.4 Development on Wed, 10 Aug 2022 10:06:06 UTC
Connected default database with reconnect to:
Oracle Database 21c Enterprise Edition Release 21.0.0.0.0 - Production
connect:42.75 ms, ociping:0.045 ms, dualping:0.102 ms, sid=379, inst#=1
connect:31.58 ms, ociping:0.025 ms, dualping:0.056 ms, sid=379, inst#=1
connect:26.30 ms, ociping:0.037 ms, dualping:0.073 ms, sid=379, inst#=1
connect:26.35 ms, ociping:0.423 ms, dualping:0.286 ms, sid=379, inst#=1
connect:29.95 ms, ociping:0.038 ms, dualping:0.049 ms, sid=379, inst#=1
connect:29.43 ms, ociping:0.034 ms, dualping:0.055 ms, sid=379, inst#=1
connect:28.98 ms, ociping:0.038 ms, dualping:0.063 ms, sid=379, inst#=1
connect:28.46 ms, ociping:0.031 ms, dualping:0.048 ms, sid=379, inst#=1
connect:29.07 ms, ociping:0.032 ms, dualping:0.055 ms, sid=379, inst#=1
connect mean=30.32, stddev=4.67, min=29.07, max=42.75
ociping mean=0.08, stddev=0.12, min=0.03, max=0.42
dualping mean=0.09, stddev=0.07, min=0.05, max=0.29
.fi
.SH NOTES
If you are using the full distribution of rwloadsim, connping is an executable shell script
in the bin directory that calls rwloadsim with the -u option getting connping.rwl from
the public directory.
As a stand alone binary distribution, connping is an executable with the connping.rwl code
embedded.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2023 Oracle Corporation
.br
Licensed under the Universal Permissive License v 1.0
as shown at https://oss.oracle.com/licenses/upl
.SH "SEE ALSO"
rwloadsim(1rwl), ociping(2rwl), utilities(2rwl)
