.TH filecommands "2rwl" "March 2024" "RWP*Load Simulator" "Workload Syntax"
.SH NAME
filecommands.rwl \- Perform various Operating System commands
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B $include:<filecommands.rwl>
.P
\fBfunction maketempdir() return string\fR
.P
\fBprocedure removetempdir(string dirname)\fR
.P
\fBfunction makedir(string dirname) return integer\fR
.P
\fBprocedure copyfile(string src, string dst)\fR
.P
.SH DESCRIPTION
The filecommands.rwl script includes functions and procedures that perform
generarally useful Operating System commands when dealing with directories 
and files.
.P
The procedures and functions can be used unchanged on Linux and Microsoft
Windows.
.SH USAGE
.TP 6
.B maketempdir()
Create a directory with a temporary name and return the name.
If there is an error during execution, an empty string will be returned.
You should arrange for your rwl program to handle such a condition.
.TP 
.B removetempdir(dirname)
Call this function to remove the directory created 
by the \fBmaketempdir()\fR function.
Note that both the directory and its contents will be removed.
If you do not call this procedure, the directory will be kept after
execution, and unless its name is given to the user, it may be difficult
to find.
.TP
.B makedir(dirname)
Create a directory with the name provided and return 0 if
the creation is succesfull or if the directory already exists.
If the directory could not be created, some non zero value 
will be returned.
.TP
.B copyfile(src,dst)
Copy a file from \fBsrc\fR to \fBdst\fR.
The source must be an ordinary file and the destination must be either the
name of a file or a directory.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2024 Oracle Corporation
.br
Licensed under the Universal Permissive License v 1.0
as shown at https://oss.oracle.com/licenses/upl
.SH "SEE ALSO"
include(1rwl), utilities(2rwl) 
