.TH mtit "2rwl" "July 2022" "RWP*Load Simulator" "Workload Usage"
.SH NAME
mtit \- The RWP*Load Simulator mtit Workload
.SH DESCRIPTION
The mtit - Maximum Throughput Insert Transaction - workload
is used to show the behavior of different approaches for 
massive inserts.
It is built as an addition to the oltp(2rwl) workload,
which must be setup before using mtit.
It is created to be used with external control, similar to how
that is done using the oltp workload.
.P
There is currently only this very brief documentation.
.SH COMMANDS
The following commands exist, all accepts a --help option to show brief usage.
.P
.B mtitcreate
.RS 4
Creates the necessary tables and indexes in the existing schemas
used by the oltp workload.
.RE
.P
.B mtitdrop
.RS 4
Drop the tables from the existing schemas, but does not otherwise
change the schemas.
.RE
.P
.B mtitcore
.RS 4
Executes a single run just like oltpcore does.
.RE
.P
.B mtitxcrun
.RS 4
Continuously runs 1 hour long runs until explicitly stopped.
It is strongly recommended that it is always called with -n and -t options
to specify the number of processes and the number of threads per process.
Note that all threads are constantly busy and that each will have a dedicated
database connection.
The process count has a maximum value of 8, but a high threadcount can be used
if high workloads are wanted.
.RE
.P
.B mtitxcset
.RS 4
Change a value for some parameter while mtitxcrun is executing.
.RE
.P
.B mtitplot
.RS 4
Recreate the plot for an mtit run.
.RE
.P
.SH ENVIRONMENT
These environment variables used by the oltp workload are also used by the mtit workload:
\fBRWLOLTP_NAME\fR,
\fBRWLOLTP_GNUPLOT1\fR,
\fBRWLOLTP_GNUPLOT2\fR
.SH BUGS
Lack of any further documentation.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2023 Oracle Corporation
.br
Licensed under the Universal Permissive License v 1.0
as shown at https://oss.oracle.com/licenses/upl
.SH "SEE ALSO"
oltpcore(2rwl), oltpcreate(2rwl), oltpdrop(2rwl), oltpplot(2rwl), oltpsetup(2rwl) 
