.TH nettest "2rwl" "December 2020" "RWP*Load Simulator" "Workload Syntax"
.SH NAME
nettest.rwl \- Estimate SQL*Net throughput
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBrwloadsim -u -l u/p@c [--rampup=N] [--concurrency=N] [--verbosetest] [--interval=N] [--fetcharray=N] [--mbperquery=M] [--period=N] nettest.rwl\fR
.P
The nettest.rwl utility estimates ping rates as well as throughput
from the database to the client.
.SH OPTIONS
\fB-u\fR
.RS 4
Compulsory option to find the nettest.rwl script in the public directory.
.RE
.P
.B -l u/p@c
.RS 4
Compulsory option to provide the username, password, and
connect string for a database connection.
You can omit the /p part in which case rwloadsim will prompt for the password.
.P
The user needs access to v$ queries to estimate physical network throughput.
.RE
.P
.B --rampup=N
.RS 4
Set rampup period for throughput tests, default is 5s
.RE
.P
.B --concurrency=N
.RS 4
Run this many concurrent throughput tests, default is not to run it.
.RE
.P
.B --fetcharray=N
.RS 4
When running the throughput test, the default array size is set to 8
implying roughly 100kB in each array fetch.
You can specify a different array size using this option.
.RE
.P
.B --mbperquery=N
.RS 4
When running the throughput test, the query that is used to generate
data sends (very close to) 1MB from the database to the
client by default. 
This parameter can be used to set a different amount of data;
it is an integer and sets the size in MB.
.RE
.P
.B --verbosetest
.RS 4
Be more verbose.
.RE
.P
.B --no-pingtest
.RS 4
Do not run the ping test, default is to run it.
.RE
.P
.B --interval=N
.RS 4
The interval (in seconds) between each ping; default 1s.
.RE
.P
.B --period=N
.RS 4
The period in seconds to run the tests; default 60s.
.RE
.SH USAGE
The nettest.rwl utility is used to estimate the performance
of database connections between the client where it is executed
and some database server.
It includes both a ping test that finds the average rate for
SQL*Net roundtrips, and a throughput test that estimates the
total throughput possible from the database to the client
(and not in the opposite direction).
.P
The throughput test will use one or more concurrent streams
to fetch data over the connection; you should always try with
both one and a few streams as the total for multiple streams
may be higher than for just a single stream.
It does two calculations, one based on the logical byte count
from the query being executed, and one based on the physical byte
count reported by the database.
The latter is often lower than the former, and the latter 
is only available if the database user has access to v$ queries.
.P
By default, the ping test runs for 60s and no throughput test
is executed.
.P
Note that your network can be saturated using the throughput test
with many streams.
.SH EXAMPLE
.P
.nf
rwloadsim -ul username/{password}@//host/db --period=20 --concurrency=5 nettest.rwl

RWP*Load Simulator Release 2.2.5.3 Development on Thu Dec 17 12:13:29 2020

Connected default database with reconnect to:
Oracle Database 19c Enterprise Edition Release 19.0.0.0.0 - Production

Performing ping test for 20 s
connect mean 148.50 ms, stddev 89.09
ociping mean 0.14 ms, stddev 0.07
dualping mean 0.21ms, stddev 0.08

Preparations taking up to 15 s
Pure database time per throughput query: mean 1.56 ms, stddev 0.03
Network and database time for throughput query: mean 3.69 ms, stddev 0.19
Connecting sessions
All threads connected
Actual throughput test now running 20 s
Throughput estimate 1.26 GB/s logical, 0.43 GB/s physical
.fi
.PP
The example shows the average ping rates using OCIPing is 0.14ms
and the estimated throughput from the database to the client
using 5 concurrent streams is 1.26 logical Gigabytes per second or 0.43 physical Gigabytes per second.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2022 Oracle Corporation
.br
Licensed under the Universal Permissive License v 1.0
as shown at https://oss.oracle.com/licenses/upl
.SH "SEE ALSO"
rwloadsim(1rwl), utilities(2rwl)
