.TH netthroughput "2rwl" "July 2022" "RWP*Load Simulator" "Utilities Syntax"
.SH NAME
netthroughput \- Estimate SQL*Net throughput
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBnetthroughput -u -l u/p@c [--rampup=N] [--concurrency=N] [--verbosetest] [--interval=N] [--fetcharray=N] [--mbperquery=M] [--period=N] [--csvoutput=file] [--csvappend=file] [--csvexcel]\fR
.P
The netthroughput utility can be used to estimate throughput from a database
to the client or application server from which is running.
.SH OPTIONS
.B -l u/p@c
.RS 4
Compulsory option to provide the username, password, and
connect string for a database connection.
You can omit the /p part in which case rwloadsim will prompt for the password.
.P
The user needs access to v$ queries to estimate physical network throughput.
.RE
.P
.B --rampup=N
.RS 4
Set rampup period for throughput tests, default is 5s
.RE
.P
.B --concurrency=N
.RS 4
Run this many concurrent test streams, default 1.
.RE
.P
.B --fetcharray=N
.RS 4
When running the test, the default array size is set to 8
implying roughly 100kB in each array fetch.
You can specify a different array size using this option.
.RE
.P
.B --mbperquery=N
.RS 4
When running the test, the query that is used to generate
data sends (very close to) 1MB from the database to the
client by default. 
This parameter can be used to set a different amount of data;
it is an integer and sets the size in MB.
.RE
.P
.B --verbosetest
.RS 4
Be more verbose.
.RE
.P
.B --period=N
.RS 4
The period in seconds to run the test; default 60s.
.RE
.P
.B --csvoutput=file
.br
.B --csvappend=file
.RS 4
Write results to the file named as space separated values.
There will be one line with these columns:
.TP 4
.B 1
The number of concurrent streams.
.TP
.B 2
The logical throughput in MB/s.
.TP
.B 3
The physical throughput in MB/s or 0 if access to v$ is not possible.
.TP
.B 4
The value 0 if all streams executed concurrently, otherwise the results
are not reliable and the value shows the needed rampup time.
See below under NOTES.
.P
If the first option is used or the second option is used but the file
does not already exist, an initial line with column headings
is written.
If the second option is used, output will be appended to the file.
.RE
.P
.B --csvexcel
.RS 4
If a csv file is created, use ';' as field separator, CRLF line
terminators, and omit # on the first line with column headings.
.RE
.SH USAGE
The netthroughput utility is used to estimate the throughput
of database connections from some database server to 
the client where it is executed.
.P
The throughput test will use one or more concurrent streams
to fetch data over the connection.
You should normally use an increasing number of streams
until saturation where use of further streams does not 
increase the throughput.
There are two calculations done, one based on the logical byte count
from the query being executed, and one based on the physical byte
count reported by the database.
The latter is only available if the database user has access to v$ queries.
.SH NOTES
Both the client and the database side will have high CPU utilization
and either side can therefore be limited by CPU.
In that case, the figures reported are not showing the possible
network throughput.
.P
Note that your network can be saturated using when many streams are used.
.P
If you get a warning that rampump is too short, the streams have not been 
running concurrently, and the results are unreliable.
In that case, make a new run with the suggested rampup time.
.SH EXAMPLE
.P
.nf
netthroughput --concurrency=10 -ul username/{password}@//host/db --period=20

RWP*Load Simulator Release 3.0.2.20 Development on Mon, 19 Sep 2022 08:44:52 UTC
Connected default database to:
Oracle Database 21c Enterprise Edition Release 21.0.0.0.0 - Production
Connecting sessions
All threads connected
Throughput test now running 20 s
Throughput estimate 1.574 GB/s logical, 1.574 GB/s physical
.fi
.PP
The example shows the 
estimated throughput from the database to the client
using 2 concurrent streams is 1.574 logical (and physical) Gigabytes per second.
.P
The following example:
.P
.nf
rm -f tp.csv
for cur in 1 2 3 4 5 
do
  netthroughput --csvappend=tp.csv -ul username/{password}@//host/db --concurrency=$cur
done
.fi
.P
will create the file tp.csv with five lines for 1 until 5 concurrent streams; it can
be used as input to gnuplot.
If you alternatively want to use typical office software on a laptop, use the --csvexcel option
and copy the csv file to your laptop.
.SH NOTES
If you are using the full distribution of rwloadsim, netthroughput is an executable shell script
in the bin directory that calls rwloadsim with the -u option getting netthroughput.rwl from
the public directory.
As a stand alone binary distribution, netthroughput is an executable with the netthroughput.rwl code
embedded.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2023 Oracle Corporation
.br
Licensed under the Universal Permissive License v 1.0
as shown at https://oss.oracle.com/licenses/upl
.SH "SEE ALSO"
rwloadsim(1rwl), utilities(2rwl)
