.TH oltpxc "2rwl" "October 2022" "RWP*Load Simulator" "Workload Syntax"
.SH NAME
oltpxc \- RWP*Load Simulator oltpxc table
.SH DECLARATION
When using external control of an oltprun, the oltpxc table is used to
set values that will be picked up by the current run.
The primary key of the table is the key and the hostname,
and the remaining columns are set via calls to oltpxcset.
Alternatively, you can arrange for some other program set set values.
.P
.nf
\fC
create table oltpxc
( key varchar2(30) not null
, hostname varchar2(64) not null
, ratefactor number
, loadfactor number
, hardparse number
, parsefailure number
, ignore_parsefailure number
, minpool number
, maxpool number
, cursorleak number
, sessionleak number
, cursorcache number
, logoffrate number
, badplan number
, stopnow number
, constraint oltpxc_pk primary key(key, hostname)
)
\fR
.fi
.SH COLUMNS
\fBkey\fR
.RS 4
This is the key provided to oltprun or oltpcore, with the default value
taken from the RWLOLTP_NAME environment variable.
.RE
.P
\fBhostname\fR
.RS 4
The hostname of the system where oltprun or oltpcore is running.
.RE
.P
\fBratefactor\fR
.RS 4
A factor that is multiplied to the standard ratefactor, i.e. the transaction
arrival rate.
.RE
.P
\fBloadfactor\fR
.RS 4
The value is the proportion of worker threads that are active.
.RE
.P
\fBhardparse\fR
.RS 4
Sets the probability that certain
sqlstatements use literals in stead of bind variables,
and therefore causing hard parsing to happen.
.RE
.P
\fBparsefailure\fR
.RS 4
Sets the probability that certain
sqlstatements use either an incorrect table name or
some syntax error during parsing causing respectively 
ORA-00942, ORA-00933 or ORA-00936.
.RE
.P
\fBignore_parsefailure\fR
.RS 4
If set to non-zero 
.I before
starting oltpxcrun, parse failures from the previous setting will not be
printed to stderr as they normally do.
.RE
.P
\fBlogoffrate\fR
.RS 4
The proportion of sessions that, when returned to the pool, will also do a disconnect
from the database.
.RE
.P
\fBminpool, maxpool\fR
.RS 4
Set the minimum and maximum size of the session pool in each process.
.RE
.P
\fBcursorleak\fR
.RS 4
Set the proportion of cursors that will be leaked.
.RE
.P
\fBsessionleak\fR
.RS 4
Set the proportion of sessions that will be leaked.
Note that after a session leak, you cannot recover the current run, so 
it will be need to be aborted using stopnow.
.RE
.P
\fBcursorcache\fR
.RS 4
Set the size of the cursor cache.
.RE
.P
\fBbadplan\fR
.RS 4
Set to the number of queries (0..10) that will do full table scan
rather than index lookup.
.RE
.P
\fBstopnow\fR
.RS 4
If set to 1, the run will abort, and if you are using oltpxcrun, the next run will start.
If set to 2, the run will abort, and if you are using oltpxcrun, it will also terminate.
If set to 3 and you are using oltpxcrun, it will terminate when the current run has
completed normally.
.RE
.SH NOTES
The actual order of the columns in the table may be different from what is shown here,
you should therefor always explicitly name columns in your sql statements.
.SH BUGS
This page is likely to be out-of-date with the actual implementation.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2023 Oracle Corporation
.P
Licensed under the Universal Permissive License v 1.0
as shown at https://oss.oracle.com/licenses/upl
.SH "SEE ALSO"
oltpcore, oltpxcset(2rwl)
