.TH oltpdirecotry "2rwl" "November 2023" "RWP*Load Simulator" "Workload Syntax"
.SH NAME
oltprunnumber \- Print a runnumber of list of runnumbers
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBoltprunnumber  [-h|-H|--help] [-k|--key key] [-a|--all] [--hostname hostname]\fR
.P
.SH OPTIONS
.B -k|--key
.RS 4
By default, the latest runnumber with the key mentioned in the RWLOLTP_NAME environment
is printed to stdout.
A different key can be provided using this option.
.RE
.P
.B -a|--all
.RS 4 
Rather than printing the latest, print all runnumbers sorted by increasing run dates, each on a separate line.
.RE
.P
.B --hostname hostname
.RS 4 
Rather than the current hostname, provide a different one.
Either the actul or the one provided will be looked up as the HOSTNAME column
of the RWLRUN table.
.RE
.P
.B -h|-H|--help
.RS 4 
Only output a short help.
.RE
.P
.SH USAGE
The 
.B oltprunnumber
command is primarily used if you want to do some extra processing of data from some runnumber.
In such a case, you can use the $(oltprunnumber) syntax in your shell to get the latest runnumber.
If used after running oltpscale, you may want to do some extra processing of data from all
runs in that oltpscalerun. 
In such a case, you can use something like 
.P
.nf
\fC
for rno in $(oltprunnumber -a -k yourscalekey)
do
  # do something
done
\fR
.fi
.P
When the \fb-a\fR option is not used, and if no rownumber matching the key and hostname is found, a single 0 will still be output,
which may be useful to allow your shell script to continue.
Additionally, an error is printed to stderr.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2023 Oracle Corporation
.br
Licensed under the Universal Permissive License v 1.0
as shown at https://oss.oracle.com/licenses/upl
.SH "SEE ALSO"
oltpparams(2rwl), oltpdirectory(2rwl)
