.TH oltpday "2rwl" "December 2020" "RWP*Load Simulator" "Workload Syntax"
.SH NAME
oltpday \- Create a full day report of oltpforever
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBoltpday [-H] [-f] [-a] [-k key] [-R file] YYYY.MM.DD
.P
Create a daily report for continuous runs
.SH OPTIONS
\fB-H\fR
.RS 4
Print short help.
.RE
.P
.B -k key
.RS 4
Set the key that will be used when getting results from the repository database
for creating the report.
The default is the same as the project name.
.RE
.P
.B -f 
.RS 4
In addition to creating the daily report, also update the report of all days
by recreating the file.
.RE
.P
.B -a 
.RS 4
In addition to creating the daily report, update the existing report of all days.
.RE
.P
.B YYYY.MM.DD
.RS 4
The day for which you want to produce a report
.RE
.SH USAGE
If you are running
.B oltpforever
for extended periods, you will typically want reports consisting of all
runs that were during one 24h period;
This is what then
.B oltpday 
command does.
The daily report will be put into a file available at the awr directory; it
will have a 
name of YYYY.MM.DD.$key.html.
Additionally, if you provide the -f option a html file with all
days is generated; the name of this file is provided in the parameter file.
Note that this operation can take very long if you have many days;
use the -a option instead to only update the file.
.P
To fully automate report generation, you must setup a daily call to 
.B oltpday
via cron or a similar mechanism.
.SH NOTES
Rwloadsim itself and therefore also the dates stored in the repository are 
always UTC based, irrespective of the timezone in which the repository
database is found and irrespective of the timezone of system where
rwloadsim (and the oltp workload) is executed.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2021 Oracle Corporation
.br
Licensed under the Universal Permissive License v 1.0
as shown at https://oss.oracle.com/licenses/upl
.SH "SEE ALSO"
oltp(2rwl), oltprun(2rwl), oltpforever(2rwl)
