.TH oltpxcrun "2rwl" "July 2022" "RWP*Load Simulator" "Workload Syntax"
.SH NAME
oltpxcrun \- Execute oltpcore with external control
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBoltpxcrun [-H] [-g] [-a] [-k key] [-R file] [-r runperiod] [--no-awr] [--default] [komment text ...]\fR
.P
Continuously make long runs with external control.
.SH OPTIONS
\fB-H\fR
.RS 4
Print short help.
.RE
.P
.B -k key
.RS 4
Set the key that will be used when storing results in the repository database.
The default is the same as the project name.
.RE
.P
.B -r runperiod
.br
.B --runperiod runperiod
.RS 4
Set a period for each run in seconds, the default is just under 1h.
.RE
.P
.B --default
.RS 4
The external control values set from a previous run are overwritten by the default
values that are found in your {key}.rwl file.
.RE
.P
.B --no-default
.RS 4
This option has no effect; the external control values from previous run are still in effect.
.RE
.P
.B --no-awr
.RS 4
Do not generate awr snapshots, awr report and other run results.
.RE
.P
.B -g
.RS 4
Show graphs during the runs using gnuplot's output to X-Windows.
This requires a properly set DISPLAY environment variable.
.RE
.P
.B -R file
.RS 4
In stead of using the normal run.rwl file count in the oltp directory, use
the file named.
The primary use of this is for experiments that require modifications to run.rwl.
.RE
.P
.B -a
.RS 4
If your orders and order_items tables are partitioned, you can use
the -a option to make sure an empty set of partitions are created
at the start of the run.
Only use this if the automatic allocation via interval
partitions appears to cause trouble
.RE
.SH USAGE
The
.B oltpxcrun
command is used for demonstration purposes where the ability to modify parameters during the run
is important.
It does little more than repeatedly doing
.B oltpcore
making 3590s long runs.
During the run, you can call oltpxcset to modify things; these modifications will be picked up
after typically a few seconds.
.P
It is highly recommended that you redirect stderr from oltpxcrun to a file that you show using
tail -f.
.SH NOTES
External control primarily exists for use internally by Oracle Corporation, and it is
on purpose vaguely documented.
It is 
.I not
guaranteed that external control will be consistent over time, nor that it will continue to be available.
Further, it may impact other parts of the oltp workload, and such impact may change in the future.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2022 Oracle Corporation
.br
Licensed under the Universal Permissive License v 1.0
as shown at https://oss.oracle.com/licenses/upl
.SH "SEE ALSO"
oltp(2rwl), oltpcore(2rwl), oltpxset(2rwl)
