.TH oltpdirecotry "2rwl" "February 2023" "RWP*Load Simulator" "Workload Syntax"
.SH NAME
oltpdirectory \- Print the name of a directory
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBoltpdirectory [-a|--awrdirectory] [-h|-H|--help] [-s|--scalekey key] [-l|--latest] [-r|--runnumber N]\fR
.P
.SH OPTIONS
.B -a|--awrdirectory
.RS 4
By default, the name of the results directory will be output, use this option
to output the name of the directory where html and generated graphics is stored.
.RE
.P
.B -s|--scalekey key
.RS 4 
Output the name of the directory where gnuplot input, csv files, etc. for some specific scale
run is found.
.RE
.P
.B -r|--runnumber NNN
.RS 4 
Output the name of the directory where gnuplot input, csv files, etc. for some specific
run is found.
.RE
.P
.B -l|--latest
.RS 4
Output the name of the directory where gnuplot input, csv files, etc. for the 
latest run from the current host is found.
.RE
.P
.B -k|--key key
.RS 4
Provide a key in the repository rather than the default taken from the RWLOLTP_NAME environment variable.
This option is only relevant if you also use the -l or --latest option.
.RE
.P
.B -h|-H|--help
.RS 4 
Only output a short help.
.RE
.P
.SH USAGE
The 
.B oltpdirectory
command will output nothing but the name of a directory and is typically used
to provide an argument for the cd command.
By default, the directory output will be the top level results directory, but providing
the -a option, the top level awr directory will be output.
If you provide either of the -r option with a runnumber as argument or the -s option
with a key used for oltpscale, the complete directory name where the actual files are stored
will be output.
.P
.SH EXAMPLE
If you did an oltpscale with a key of 'myscale1' you can change your current 
directory to the directory where all input for e.g. gnuplot is by doing:
.P
.nf
cd `oltpdirectory -s myscale1`
.fi
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2023 Oracle Corporation
.br
Licensed under the Universal Permissive License v 1.0
as shown at https://oss.oracle.com/licenses/upl
.SH "SEE ALSO"
oltpparams(2rwl)
