.TH oltpconnect "2rwl" "June 2024" "RWP*Load Simulator" "Workload Syntax"
.SH NAME
oltpconnect \- Provide credentials to some other utility
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBoltpconnect [-H|--help]\fR
.P
\fB$(oltpconnect [-2] [-p|--pool] [-b|--batch] [-A|--awr] [-S|--system] [-R|--results] [-r|--run] [-a|--aw] [-o|--oe])\fR
.P
.SH OPTIONS
.B -H
.RS 4
Show short help.
.RE
.P
.B -A|--awr
.RS 4 
Return credentials for the user doing awr snapshots and reporting.
.RE
.P
.B -S|--system
.RS 4
Return credentials for the system user used to run v$ queries etc.
.RE
.P
.B -C|--cruser
.RS 4
Return credentials for the system user used to create schemas.
.RE
.P
.B -R|--results
.RS 4
Return credentials for your repository user.
.RE
.P
.B -r|--run
.RS 4
Return credentials for your normal runtime user.
This is the default when no other options are provided.
.RE
.P
.B -a|--aw
.RS 4
Return credentials for the user who owns the artificial workload schema.
.RE
.P
.B -o|--oe
.RS 4
Return credentials for the user who owns the order entry schema.
.RE
.P
.B -2
.RS 4
If you are using -r or -a, use the side 2 version of the schema (as used by oltpforever2).
.RE
.P
.B -p|--pool
.RS 4
If you are using -r, -a or -o, use the pool_connect connect string, otherwise use normal_connect.
.RE
.P
.B -b|--batch
.RS 4
If you are using -r, -a or -o, use the batch_connect connect string, otherwise use normal_connect.
.RE
.SH USAGE
The 
.B oltpconnect
command is used to provide credentials in the form username/{password}@service
such that they can be provided to some other tool.
Note that if stdout is a terminal, the password will be blank and that the
preferred usage is via your shells command substitution.
The primary usage of the \fBoltpconnect\fR command is to allow you to show
how various tools can be used
without revealing passwords on the screen. 
.P
The 
.B oltpconnect
command takes no ordinary arguments and returns the credentials for the rwlrun1 user
unless one of the other schemas is selected using the appropriate option(s).
.SH EXAMPLE
Call ashplot connecting to your system user without the need to show or type password:
.P
.nf
ashplot -l $(oltpconnect -S) --autoupdate=5
.fi
.P
The following is equivalent to typing \fBoltpplus -r\fR:
.P
.nf
sqlplus $(oltpconnect)
.fi
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2023 Oracle Corporation
.br
Licensed under the Universal Permissive License v 1.0
as shown at https://oss.oracle.com/licenses/upl
.SH "SEE ALSO"
oltp(2rwl), oltpsetup(2rwl), oltpparams(2rwl), oltpplus(2rwl)
