.TH oltpscalereport "2rwl" "July 2022" "RWP*Load Simulator" "Workload Syntax"
.SH NAME
oltpscalereport \- Create a scaling report
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBoltpscalereport [-H] [--xrange=[0:n] ] [--yrange=[0:n] ] [--y2range=[0:m] ] key [report title]\fR
.P
Recreate the scaling report that is created using
.B oltpscale
.SH OPTIONS
.B -H|--help
.RS 4
Print command usage.
.RE
.P
.B --xrange='[0:n]'
.RS 4
Set the xrange specification for gnuplot to plot process count.
.RE
.P
.B --yrange='[0:n]'
.RS 4
Set the yrange specification for gnuplot to plot database CPU and time.
.RE
.P
.B --y2range='[0:n]'
.RS 4
Set the y2range specification for gnuplot to plot throughput.
.RE
.P
.SH USAGE
By default, gnuplot finds a suitable range for the x and y axes that are set
such that the actual data are well represented and no data is out of range.
If you make several executions of
.B oltpscale
that you want to compare, you may therefore have reports that have
different left (yrange) and right (y2range) y axes.  
The left y-axis shows the db CPU and db time, the right shows the
throughput.
.P
You can recreate the report for some key with new gnuplot settings for
these two axes.
.P
You can similarly make the plots include same range of processes
by setting the xrange.
.P
The key is a compulsory argument and you can provide addition text
for your graphs and html files if needed.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2023 Oracle Corporation
.br
Licensed under the Universal Permissive License v 1.0
as shown at https://oss.oracle.com/licenses/upl
.SH "SEE ALSO"
oltp(2rwl), oltpscale(2rwl), oltpcheckkey(2rwl)
