.TH oltpverify "2rwl" "July 2022" "RWP*Load Simulator" "Workload Syntax"
.SH NAME
oltpverify \- Verify settings in parameter file
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBoltpverify [-H|--help] [-a|--all] [-d|--directories] [-u|--runuser] [--awuser] [--oeuser] [-r|--repository] [-s] [--system] [--cruser] [-2]\fR
.P
.SH OPTIONS
.B -H|--help
.RS 4
Show short help
.RE
.P
.B -d|--directories
.RS 4 
Verify results and awr directories are fine.
.RE
.P
.B -s
.RS 4
Verify all system databases can connect.
.RE
.P
.B --system
.RS 4
Verify the system and awr databases can connect.
.RE
.P
.B --cruser
.RS 4
Verify the system database used for schema creation can connect.
.RE
.P
.B -r|--repository
.RS 4
Verify repository database can connect.
.RE
.P
.B -2
.RS 4
For the relevant tests, verify side 2.
.RE
.P
.B --awuser
.RS 4
Verify the aw schema user database can connect.
.RE
.P
.B --oeuser
.RS 4
Verify the oe schema user database can connect.
.RE
.P
.B -u|--runuser
.RS 4
Verify the run user database can connect.
.RE
.P
.B -a|--all
.RS 4
Perform all verifications
.RE
.P
.B -q|--quiet
.RS 4
Do not output banners from invocations of rwloadsim.
.RE
.SH USAGE
The 
.B oltpverify
command is used while you prepare your parameter file to verify
settings are correct for your oltp workload.
When executed before
running oltpcreate, suggested options are 
.B -d -s -r
to verify directories, system and repository databases can connect.
After oltpcreate has been executed, you should run oltpverify twice with respectively
.B -a 
and
.B -a -2
options.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2023 Oracle Corporation
.br
Licensed under the Universal Permissive License v 1.0
as shown at https://oss.oracle.com/licenses/upl
.SH "SEE ALSO"
oltp(2rwl), oltpsetup(2rwl), oltpparams(2rwl)
