.TH oltpsetup "2rwl" "July 2022" "RWP*Load Simulator" "Workload Syntax"
.SH OVERVIEW
This page shows how to setup and configure the oltp workload that is included with the RWP*Load Simulator
.SH PROJECTS
On the system, that will be your application server, you will be running one or several projects
that typically differ in how and to which database they connect.
Each project must have a short name such as dbone, dbtwo, etc.
For the rest of the discussion on this page, the project name \fBkey\fR is used.
.SH DIRECTORIES
In order to run the oltp workload, you need three directories:
.P
A \fBworking directory\fR where you keep the files that typically get modified while you use the oltp
workload.
Each project will be identified by its name and there will be two files associated with each project;
these files must be stored in this directory.
It is recommended that you create a directory separately from your home directory, but you can
very well have multiple projects in the same directory as each project normally just needs
those two files.
.P
A \fBresults directory\fR that will be filled with sub-directories and files when you are using
the oltp workload.
You should have one directory per project, and you should prepare sufficient space for
up to 0.5MB for each single run you perform.
You normally don't need to inspect or modify any of the files created.
.P
An \fBawr directory\fR that will be filled with sub-directories, html files, graphs, etc while
you perform the runs.
This directory must be visible externally via a browser, and it must be writable by your login
user.
If you e.g. use Apache as your web server, the directory typically must exist somewhere under
/var/www/html.
You should plan to have sufficient space for about 2MB plus 2MB per database instance
for each single run.
If your webserver runs on a different system than your runs, the directory can very well
be made available using NFS or similar.
.P
.SH PREPARATION
From your RWP*Load Simulator distribution, make copies of the two files from
the oltp directory, \fBoltp.env\fR and \fBoltp.rwl\fR to your working directory,
and make the copies named after your project. 
If your project it named \fBkey\fR, the files must therefore be named
\fBkey.env\fR and \fBkey.rwl\fR
.P
The file \fBkey.env\fR must be modified such that it sets the environment variable RWLOLTP_NAME
to your project name such as \fBkey\fR.
If needed, you may also set environment variables like TNS_ADMIN, TWO_TASK, etc.
It is also recommended to set RWLOADSIM_PATH set (include) your project working directory.
.SH EXPERIMENTS
The otlp workload is implemented using a combination of shell and rwl scripts.
If you want to experiment with changes to the rwl scripts, you can create a copy in your
working directory of any of the scripts found in the oltp directory of your rwloadsim 
distribution.
Doing so implies the script in your working directory will be used in stead of the one
in your rwloadsim distribution, and you can therefore make those changes you may find useful.
If you do so, it is recommended that you add a \fBprintline\fR command in the beginning of 
your modified script to inform about the use of an edited rwl file.
.SH PARAMETERS
Your projects parameter file such as \fBkey.rwl\fR contains all settings that define your project
including database credentials, connect strings, workload size, etc.
Some settings are compulsory, others have defaults that you should initially not change.
.P
The following lists all compulsory parameters.
.P
\fBawrdirectory\fR
.RS 4
Sets the name of the directory where awr, html, graphs, etc will be stored.
This is the directory mentioned above that is visible externally from a browser.
.RE
.P
\fBresultsdir\fR
.RS 4
Sets the name of the results directory as explained above.
.RE
.P
.nf
\fBnormal_connect\fR
\fBpool_connect\fR
\fBbatch_connect\fR
.fi
.RS 4
Sets the connect strings either in URL style syntax such as //host/service or as names in tnsnames.ora
that will be used when the oltp workload is executing its ordinary transactions.
The first is used in the few cases where pooling is not in effect, the latter are used for the
vast majority of cases where the transactions use pooling, pool_connect for the typically short
transactions, batch_connect for the more batch oriented transactions.
.P
In most cases, the three can be set to the same value.
.P
If your database under test is an autonomous database, you should choose the connection names that
have _tp at the end.
.RE
.P
.nf
\fBpool_type\fR
\fBbatch_type\fR
.fi
.RS 4
Normally the vast majority of transactions use session pools as described above.
You can alternatively run either of the two (short and more batch oriented) using
either \fBdedicated\fR or \fBdrcp\fR connections to the database by setting either
of these two parameters to the respective value.
.P
Note that setting either to \fBdrcp\fR implies each worker thread will use its own separate
DRCP connection to the database, and that no ordinary session pool will be created.
In this case, you must include :pooled in URL style connect string or 
(server=pooled) in a tnsnames.ora entry; rwloadsim does not verify this is done.
.P
To achieve the typical DRCP use case where DRCP is used
.I together
with the session pool for either, you should keep the respective parameter at its default
setting implying a session pool is used in rwloadsim, but additionally have :pooled 
(or server=pooled in tnsnames.ora).
.P
The settings for DRCP can also be used with cman/tdm, i.e. PRCP.
.P
Do not set either parameter to any other value.
.RE
.P
.nf
\fBrwl_min_pool\fR
\fBrwl_max_pool\fR
\fBrwl_pool_release\fR
.fi
.RS 4
When pool_type is set to its default value of "sessionpool",
these three parameters control the size of the normal pool in each process.
The two former set the smallest and highest number of database sessions in the pool, and the last
parameter sets the timeout after which idle sessions in the pool are released by disconnecting
from the database.
.P
The default values of respectively 3, 10 and 5.0s are normally appropriate.
.P
.RE
.P
\fBcruser_connect\fR
.RS 4
Is set to the connect string that will be used when schemas are created and filled with data.
In most cases, it can be the same as the normal_connect, but if your database is an 
autonomous database, using the name with _tpurgent at the end may make data fill faster
as it allows parallel processing.
.RE
.P
.nf
\fBcruser_username\fR
\fBcruser_password\fR
.fi
.RS 4
Set these to a username respectively password that will be used for schema creation 
combined with the cruser_connect connect string.
The typical username is "system" or "admin" in case of autonomous databases.
.RE
.P
.nf
\fBsystem_connect\fR
\fBsystem_username\fR
\fBsystem_password\fR
.fi
.RS 4
These will be used during actual execution of your runs to primarily run queries against
v$ tables etc.
The typical username is "system" or "admin" in case of autonomous databases.
You can normally set them to the same values as used for schema creation, although the
connect string should be the one ending in _tp in case of an autonomous database.
.P
Unless the next three parameters are provided, the credentials will also be used for 
gathering awr snapshots.
.RE
.P
.nf
\fBsysawr_connect\fR
\fBsysawr_username\fR
\fBsysawr_password\fR
.fi
.RS 4
By default, awr snapshots and reporting will use the credentials provided by the 
three previous parameters.
But if your database is 
a PDB, and if you have access to the root container, you should set these parameters 
to the credentials for the root rather than for the PDB.
Doing so will make the awr reports more comprehensive as they include data from all PDBs.
.RE
.P
If you (as recommended) have a separate database for your RWP*Load Simulator repository, set these:
.P
.nf
\fBresults_in_test := 0;\fR
\fBresults_connect\fR
\fBresults_username\fR
\fBresults_password\fR
.fi
.RS 4
Setting results_in_test to zero implies the repository will not be created in your database under test.
In that case, the other three parameters must be set to point to your already created repository database.
.RE
.P
If you want to perform some quick tests and do not have an existing RWP*Load Simulator repository,
you can set these parameters:
.P
.nf
\fBresults_in_test := 1;\fR
\fBresults_connect\fR
\fBresults_username\fR
\fBresults_password\fR
\fBrwloadsim_dir\fR
.fi
.RS 4
Setting results_in_test to non-zero implies the repository will be created in your database under test
unless one has already been created there.
The three following parameters will be used to create the repository schema and later to access it.
The rwloadsim_dir parameter must be set to be the full path-name to the admin directory of your
installation of rwloadsim.
.RE
.P
During execution, the oltp workload needs five different database schemas for which you must
provide usernames and passwords.  
This is done using these ten parameters:
.P
.nf
\fBrwl_aw1_username rwl_aw1_username\fR
\fBrwl_aw2_username rwl_aw2_username\fR
\fBrwl_oe_username rwl_oe_username\fR
\fBrwl_run1_username rwl_run1_username\fR
\fBrwl_run2_username rwl_run2_username\fR
.fi
.RS 4
The usernames can be any allowed schema names as long as the schemas not already exists.
It is, however, important that the names for the last two can be identified using a like condition,
so these two are typically named RWLRUN1 and RWLRUN2, as the like condition RWLRUN_ can be used to
identify those.
The usernames must be written in upper case.
The passwords must be chosen to match any password restrictions of your database.
.RE
.P
\fBrwl_run_like\fR
.RS 4
Set to the like condition that identifies the last two schema names mentioned above.
The like condition must be written in uppercase.
.RE
.P
\fBdefault_tablespace\fR
.RS 4
The three first schemas mentioned above will contain actual data, and they must therefore
have a proper default tablespace configured.
This parameter names that tablespace.
A very rough size estimate is that you will initially need up to 10GB, which mostly depends on 
the size of your aw_cols tables.
If you are going to make many runs, size can grow to 100GB or beyond.
.RE
.P
The next three parameters control how big the aw_cols table, how skew the access to it is,
and how many rows are read by each query.
If the table is almost as large as (or even larger then) your buffer cache, you can get massive 
reads if there is no skew in access to the table.
The purpose of the settings is to be able to adjust the actual amount of physical reads in 
your database under test.
Se the oltp.rwl file for further information.
.P
\fBaw_cols_256MB_doublings\fR
.RS 4
The table is created by first filling it to roughly 256MB and then doubling it a number of times; this
parameter sets the number of times it gets doubled from the initial 256MB.
The default is 4 resulting in an aw_cols table of an approximate size of 4GB.
.RE
.P
\fBaw_cols_skew\fR
.RS 4
If not set, all rows in the aw_cols table will be uniformly queried.
If you set a value, the rows actually queried will be skewly distributed, the higher the value,
the more skew distribution.
With higher skew, the buffer cache gets more effective.
Typical values are in the range between 5 and several hundred, but you will normally need to experiment, in particular
if your aw_cols table is as large as or ever larger than your buffer cache.
.P
Note that if your aw_cols \fIis\fR so large that it will not fit in your buffer cache, you cannot
completely prevent reads even with very high values for aw_cols_skew, so the awr report will be 
likely to report that your SGA is undersized.
It is debatable if this is a bug or a feature of the oltp workload, and ideas for a better scheme
are welcome.
.RE
.P
\fBaw_cols_query_factor\fR
.RS 4
This parameter sets the average number of rows being read in each aw_cols query.
Due to the extremely poor index clustering factor, these rows are likely to be
distributed on the same amount of database blocks.
The default value is 50, which is a good starting point for experiments.
.RE
.P
The following parameters impact the generated output and graphs.
.P
\fBrwl_title\fR
.RS 4
Set to a string that will be put on all html files, graphs, etc that are generated.
.RE
.P
\fBrwl_daily_html\fR
.RS 4
Set to name the file that will contain daily overviews when using the oltpday(2rwl) utility;
it should name a html file.
.RE
.P
\fBrwl_heading\fR
.RS 4
Set to a string that will be the heading for the daily reports, generated using oltpday(2rwl).
.RE
.P
The following parameters are used to control the actual workload, and they have reasonable default values.
Note that only some parameters are documented here, there rest are discussed in the oltp.rwl file
that you copied to a file named after your project such as \fBkey.rwl\fR.
.P
\fBratefactor\fR
.RS 4
This is a double value (default 0.2) that sets the overall workload. 
You can very approximately assume that with the default value together with the default value for
\fBthreadcount\fR, making runs with one process will require in the order of 0.2 database CPU seconds per second.
.RE
.P
\fBrategradient\fR
.RS 4
This is a double value that can be used to make the overall workload increase gradually during
a run.
If the value is 0 (or is unset), the arrival rate will be constant during the run;
this is the default behavior.
If the value is set higher than 0 and at most to 1, the arrival rate will initially be
\fIlower\fR than specified via \fBratefactor\fR, half way through the run it will be
what \fBratefactor\fR specifies and at the finish of the run, it will be \fIhigher\fR.
Effectively, the rate will gradually increase from 100*rategradient percent below normal
to 100*rategradient percent above normal.
Values outside the range [0;1] will be adjusted to either 0 or 1.
.RE
.P
\fBthreadcount\fR
.RS 4
This is an integer value (default 50) that sets the number of worker threads per process.
If you want to experiment with, as an example, twice the load, you can do so by doubling either
of \fBratefactor\fR, \fBthreadcount\fR, or the number of processes.
.P
.RE
.nf
\fBtime_out\fR
.fi
.RS 4
When time_out is set to an actual value of 0 or more, any transaction that is delayed by more than the
value of \fBtime_out\fR seconds will be 
.I dropped
in stead of being actually executed.
When a transaction is dropped, no database session will be acquired, and the transaction is not executed.
In stead, the drop count will be increased by 1.
This is only likely to happen when the datbase is under pressure and when the actual time to 
get a database session and execute a transaction is higher than the inverse of the arrival rate.
The drop count is visible in the persec table with a vname of 'call_failure'.
.RE
.P
The following parameters with names starting with fix_ have effect when the execution is fixed at
starttime, i.e. when external control is not used.
.P
\fBfix_logoffrate\fR
.RS 4
This is a double value that can be set to increase the logon activity by causing session release
to also disconnect.
By default, this does not happen, but if set to a value in the range ]0;1], the value sets
the proportion of sessions doing the make_order transaction that will disconnect during
session release.
The parameter only has effect when the normal pool is a session pool.
.RE
.P
\fBfix_cursorleak\fR
.RS 4
This is a double value that can be set to make the application leak cursors at a certain rate.
By default, this does not happen, but if set to a value in the range ]0;1], the value sets
the proportion of cursors that will be leaked.
If you want to experiment with the, start with very low values such as 0.001 and be prepared
that you will receive ORA-01000 errors.
.RE
.P
\fBfix_hardparse\fR
.RS 4
This is a double value that can be set to make hard parse take place.
By default, no hard parse takes place, but if the parameter is set to a value higher than zero,
hard parse will take place.
The valid range is [0;1].
.RE
.P
\fBorders_hashcount\fR
.RS 4
If your database does not have partitioning, set this to 0, otherwise leave it at the default.
This must be done before you run oltpcreate(2rwl).
.P
.RE
\fBrunplot_width\fR
.RS 4
If you are using -g or -G to show running graphs, they will by default show the latest 60s
of activity, unless this parameter is set to a different value.
.P
.RE
\fBgnuplotjs\fR
.RS 4
To generate clickable svg files, your browser must expose a copy of certain javascript files from
your distribution of gnuplot.  
This parameter sets the name of the directory where these are stored seen from the browsers
perspective.
If you are using gnuplot version 4.6 and have copied the contents of /usr/share/gnuplot/4.6/js/*
to usr/share/gnuplot/4.6/js/ (seen from the root of your http daemon), the value should be
"/usr/share/gnuplot/4.6/js".
.SH BURSTS
You can include four different types of "bursts" in your run; one does a burst using a higher average transaction
arrival rate, the other does a burst using a higher number of worker threads,
the third does an activity burst by changing (logged on) sessions from being idle to being active,
and the last is an implicit burst being the result of a period with reduced session pool sizes.
.P
For the first, you must provide a factor, by which the arrival rate increases, and for the second,
you must provide the count of extra worker threads.  
For both, you provide the time in seconds from the beginning of the run
when the burst should start and the length of the burst in seconds. 
.P
To include a burst with higher arrival rate, include these parameters:
.P
.nf
\fBburst_start\fR
\fBburst_length\fR
\fBburst_factor\fR
.fi
.RS 4
The two first parameters set the time to start and length of the burst, and
the third parameter is the factor that is applied to the arrival rate during the burst.
.RE
.P
To include a burst with extra worker threads, include these parameters:
.P
.nf
\fBwburst_start\fR
\fBwburst_length\fR
\fBwburst_count\fR
.fi
.RS 4
The two first parameters set the time to start and length of the burst, and
the third parameter is the number of extra worker threads during the burst.
To prevent all processes from increasing the worker thread count at the same time,
you can include procnumber in your calculation for wburst_start. 
As an example, if you set wburst_start to 200+procnumber, the increase in worker
threads will be at 200s for process 1, 201s for process 2, etc.
.P
.RE
All parameters are double except wburst_count that is an integer, and you can very well
include both types of burst.
.P
The third type of burst is provided by spedifying a point in time during the run
where the activity changes.
All workers are connected (assuming no pooling is in place), but
before that point in time, only some workers are active.
When the point in time for the change is reached, all workers get active, which will cause
an activity burst, which results in e.g. many cursors being (soft) parsed at the same time.
The four parameters controlling this are:
.P
.nf
\fBaburst_workers\fR
\fBaburst_pre_factor\fR
\fBaburst_post_factor\fR
\fBaburst_start\fR
.fi
.RS 4
In the period until aburst_start, only aburst_workers do actual work while the remaining 
(i.e. threadcount-aburst_workers) are connected but are idle.
The arrival rate in the active workers during this period is a factor aburst_pre_factor higher 
than normal. 
If the value aburst_pre_factor*aburst_workes/threadcount is 1.0, the effective arrival rate
during this period is the same as it would have been without an activity burst.
In the period after aburst_start, all workers are active, in the arrival rate of these
is the normal arrival rate multiplied by aburst_post_factor. 
The default for both factors is 1.0.
.RE
.P
The last type of bursts comes due to a backlog of transactions that are delayed during a period
with reduced sessions in the normal pool.
It only has effect when using session pools.
.P
To include a temporary delay by reduced session counts, include there parameters:
.P
.nf
\fBdelay_start\fR
\fBdelay_length\fR
\fBdelay_min_pool\fR
\fBdelay_max_pool\fR
.fi
.RS 4
The two first parameters (double) set the time to start and the length of the delay, and
the two latter parameter (integer) are the min and max number of sessions in the normal pool during the delay.
If \fBdelay_length\fR is zero, no delay will take place.
.RE
.SH VERIFICATION
To verify the directories and files are setup properly, run \fBoltpverify -d\fR.
.P
To verify the settings for system users are correct, run \fBoltpverify -s\fR.
.P
To verify you can connect to a repository, run \fBoltpverify -r\fR.
.P
To create all schemas, run \fBoltpcreate\fR; to drop all schemas expect the repository, run \fBoltpdrop\fR.
.P
To verify schemas are properly created, run \fBoltpverify -u\fR.
.SH "UNDOCUMENTED PARAMETERS"
There are some extra parameters, that you can set in either your \fBkey.rwl\fR file or using -i or -d on the
oltprun command line.
To get documentation for these, you need to look at the parameters.rwl file in the oltp directory.
.SH BUGS
All oltp commands accept -H to get help, many also accept --help, some also -h for that purpose
while -h is used to provide actual argument values for a few commands.
For rwloadsim itself, -h or --help is the option to output help while -H is used to output help from
useroptions.
The best way to get command syntax in a consistent way is to use rwlman; the second best is to 
try with a --help option, which works in all frequently used commands.
This is confusing.
.P
Some oltp commands accept both single letter and gnu style long options, which is also confusing.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2023 Oracle Corporation
.br
Licensed under the Universal Permissive License v 1.0
as shown at https://oss.oracle.com/licenses/upl
.SH "SEE ALSO"
oltp(2rwl), oltpcreate(2rwl), oltpdrop(2rwl), oltpawcols(2rwl), oltprun(2rwl), oltpforever(2rwl), oltpday(2rwl), oltxcrun(2rwl)
