.TH oltprun "2rwl" "July 2022" "RWP*Load Simulator" "Workload Syntax"
.SH NAME
oltprun \- Perform one run using the oltp workload
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBoltprun [-H] [-g|-G] [-a] [-2] [-k key] [-r runperiod] [-R file] [-n procs] [-x script] [-o file] [-K n] [-W] [komment text ...]
.P
Execute one run using the oltp workload, saving intermediate results in 
the results directory and making final results (including stdout and stderr)
available in the awr directory for browsing.
.P
Any arguments are added as extra komment text using -K option to rwloadsim; it must be preceded by -- if it
includes any text that appear like options.
.P
Gnu style long options are also available as shown below.
.SH OPTIONS
.B -h -H --help
.RS 4
Print short help.
.RE
.P
.B -n|--processcount N
.RS 4
Set the number of processes, default 1
.RE
.P
.B -k|--key key
.RS 4
Set the key that will be used when storing results in the repository database.
The default is the same as the project name.
.RE
.P
.B -r|--runperiod N
.RS 4
Set the runperiod in seconds; the default is 295s.
You will get the nicest graphs if the value chosen is a bit less than a multiple
of 300s.
If less than 125s, no awr reports will be created.
.RE
.P
.B -b|--simulatebatch 
.RS 4
In stead of the normal simulation of an average arrival rate, run everything in a busy
loop without any waiting/queuing taking place.
You typically do this with much fewer threads (and/or processes) as each thread in 
each process constantly will be executing emulated business transactions.
.P
Note that all burst features are turned off and that only the processing in the normal
pool (set via pool_type in your project file) is done.
You should normally arrange for your connections to be dedicated
and set pool_type:="dedicated", but
if you do use e.g. sessionpool, sessions will constantly be acquired and released.
.RE
.P
.B -g|--graphs
.RS 4
Show two graphs during the run using gnuplot's output to X-Windows;
this requires a properly set DISPLAY environment variable.
One graph
will show distribution of sessions on database instances together with counts
of open and active sessions when a session pool is in use.
The other graph will show the throughput of the various emulated business 
transactions.
.RE
.P
.B -G|--gegraphs
.RS 4
An alternative to the previous, where the second running graph will show total
throughput and queue time respectively total time per transaction for a few selected
emulated business transactions.
This is particularly useful when using external control to immediately see the
effect of any changes.
.RE
.P
.B -2
.RS 4
Use side 2 for the aw_transaction workload; it is used by oltpforever2 and
should not be done directly by the user.
.RE
.P
.B -R|--runfile file
.RS 4
In stead of using the normal run.rwl file found in the oltp directory, use
the file named.
The primary use of this is for experiments that require modifications to run.rwl.
.RE
.P
.B -a|--preallocate
.RS 4
If your orders and order_items tables are partitioned, you can use
the -a option to make sure an empty set of partitions are created
at the start of the run.
Only use this if the automatic allocation via interval
partitions appears to cause trouble
.RE
.P
.B -o file|--extraoutput
.RS 4
Add the contents of the named text file to generated html output; this can be used if you want
to add more information than feasible using komment.
.RE
.P
.B -x script|--extrascript
.RS 4
Execute the named script (which must be in your current directory) after completion;
it will be provided one argument which is the runnumber.
.RE
.P
.B -i|--integer|-d|--double spec
.RS 4
Provide the option to rwloadsim when doing the actual run, i.e. when run.rwl (or the file
given as the -R option) is executed.
.RE
.P
.B -W|--awrwait
.P
.B -K|--awrkill n
.RS 4
See COMPLETION at oltpcore(2rwl).
.RE
.SH USAGE
You often don't need anything but a few options.
All graphs, html files, etc. will have a default title that
is specified in your parameter file. 
You can provide additional text by adding extra arguments to
the oltprun command.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2023 Oracle Corporation
.br
Licensed under the Universal Permissive License v 1.0
as shown at https://oss.oracle.com/licenses/upl
.SH "SEE ALSO"
oltp(2rwl), oltpcore(2rwl), oltpscale(2rwl), oltpforever(2rwl), oltpkomment(2rwl)
