.TH oltpplus "2rwl" "July 2022" "RWP*Load Simulator" "Workload Syntax"
.SH NAME
oltpplus \- Call SQL*Plus with some username, password and connect string
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBoltpplus [-H|--help] [-2] [-p|--pool] [-b|--batch] [-A|--awr] [-S|--system] [-R|--results] [-r|--run] [-a|--aw] [-o|--oe]\fR
.P
.SH OPTIONS
.B -H
.RS 4
Show short help.
.RE
.P
.B -A|--awr
.RS 4 
Call SQL*Plus as the user doing awr snapshots and reporting.
.RE
.P
.B -S|--system
.RS 4
Call SQL*Plus as the system user used to run v$ queries etc.
.RE
.P
.B -C|--cruser
.RS 4
Call SQL*Plus as the system user used to create schemas.
.RE
.P
.B -R|--results
.RS 4
Call SQL*Plus as your repository user.
.RE
.P
.B -r|--run
.RS 4
Call SQL*Plus as your normal runtime user.
.RE
.P
.B -a|--aw
.RS 4
Call SQL*Plus as the user who owns the artificial workload schema.
.RE
.P
.B -o|--oe
.RS 4
Call SQL*Plus as the user who owns the order entry schema.
.RE
.P
.B -2
.RS 4
If you are using -r or -a, use the side 2 version of the schema (as used by oltpforever2).
.RE
.P
.B -p|--pool
.RS 4
If you are using -r, -a or -o, use the pool_connect connect string, otherwise use normal_connect.
.RE
.P
.B -b|--batch
.RS 4
If you are using -r, -a or -o, use the batch_connect connect string, otherwise use normal_connect.
.RE
.SH USAGE
The 
.B oltpplus
command is used to start an interactive SQL*Plus sessions with one of the normal 
users you have defined in your oltp key file.
The major benefit of using this command is that it prevents showing visible passwords
on your terminal.
.P
The 
.B oltpplus
command takes no arguments and exactly one of the schemas must be selected using the appropriate option.
.P
When called, it will first echo the username and the connect string, and then call sqlplus.
.SH NOTES
The oltpconnect(2rwl) command can be used if you want to start some other tool
without showing the password on the terminal.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2023 Oracle Corporation
.br
Licensed under the Universal Permissive License v 1.0
as shown at https://oss.oracle.com/licenses/upl
.SH "SEE ALSO"
oltp(2rwl), oltpsetup(2rwl), oltpparams(2rwl), oltpconnect(2rwl)
