.TH ovid2 "2rwl" "December 2020" "RWP*Load Simulator" "Workload Syntax"
.SH NAME
ovid2.rwl \- Generate random strings
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B $include:<ovid2.rwl>
.P
\fBfunction ovidstring( integer w ) return string\fR
.P
\fBfunction ovidstring2( integer l ) return string\fR
.P
.SH DESCRIPTION
The ovid2.rwl script includes two functions that return a random string
consisting of lower case Latin words separated by one blank.
The words are between 1 and 15 characters long and are returned with
the same probability that they occur in the first three chapters of
Ovid's "Metamorphoses".
.P
The function \fBovidstring\fR returns a string with the number of 
words provided by the argument which must be at least 1.
.P
The function \fBovidstring2\fR returns a string that contains a number
of words such that the return string has a length that is at most
the number of characters provided as its argument.
As it returns complete words, it may be up to 14 characters shorter
and the smallest value for the length is 15.
.P
Both functions are limited to a maximum of 32768 characters.
.SH EXAMPLE
If you execute
.P
printline ovidstring(7);
.P
the output may be
.P
vetera transierunt ecce facta sunt omnia nova
.P
It is left as an exercise to the reader to calculate the probability
that this output will be produced.
.P
There are two demonstration files, ovid2test.rwl and ovid2test2.rwl, in the demo
subdirectory of your rwloadsim distribution.
The oltp workload is similarly using ovid2.rwl.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2022 Oracle Corporation
.br
Licensed under the Universal Permissive License v 1.0
as shown at https://oss.oracle.com/licenses/upl
.SH "SEE ALSO"
longoption(1rwl), include(1rwl), oltp(2rwl)
