.TH sqlmonitorawr "2rwl" "February 2021" "RWP*Load Simulator" "Workload Syntax"
.SH NAME
sqlmonitorawr.rwl \- Create sql monitor from gv$sql views
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBrwloadsim [options] -u -l u/p@c sqlmonitorawr.rwl sqlid \fR
.P
For the provided sqlid, the sqlmonitorawr.rwl utility creates sql monitor from
the awr repository view dba_hist_reports_details.
The output is written to a file named with the sqlid and a suffix of .html
unless the --output_file option is provided.
.P
You can control which actual of many existing sql monitor to output
similar to sqlmonitor.rwl that has several ways to provide information
about which of potentially many sql monitors to output.
.SH OPTIONS
\fB-u\fR
.RS 4
Compulsory option to find the sqlmonitorawr.rwl script in the public directory.
.RE
.P
.B -l u/p
.P
.B -l u/p@c
.RS 4
Compulsory option to provide the username, password, and potentially
connect string for a database connection that provides access to
a login with access to gv$sql and dba_hist_sqltext.
If you omit /p, rwloadsim will prompt for the password.
.RE
.P
.B --output_file=filename
.RS 4
By default, the output is written to a file named as the sqlid with a suffix
of .html.
Use this option to specify a different filename.
.RE
.P
.B --sql_plan_hash_value=value
.RS 4
Provide a value for the sql_plan_hash_value similar to the same argument to dbms_sql_monitor.report_sql_monitor.
Note that if you view the monitor in a browser, this is the hash value of the final statement.
.RE
.P
.B --sql_exec_id=value
.RS 4
Provide a value for the sql_exec_id similar to the same argument to dbms_sql_monitor.report_sql_monitor.
.RE
.P
.B --sql_exec_start=value
.RS 4
Provide a value which must be a date in the exact format YYYY.MM.DDTHH24:MI:SS with 
a literal T to separate the date part from the time part
for the sql_exec_start similar to the same argument to dbms_sql_monitor.report_sql_monitor.
.RE
.P
.B --dbid=value
.RS 4
Provide a value for the dbid found in in the dba_hist_reports view.
.RE
.P
.B --con_dbid=value
.RS 4
Provide a value for the con_dbid found in in the dba_hist_reports view.
.RE
.P
.B --show_list_query
.RS 4
Output a query that you can execute in sqlplus to show
.I all
available sql monitor reports saved in the awr repository
with the conditions you have provided.
Doing this is particularly useful if you are getting a warning about the
presence of several reports.
.RE
.P
\fBsqlid\fR
.RS 4
Exactly one sqlid must be provided.
.RE
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
rwloadsim -ul --output_file=x7.html --con_dbid=3554276882 system/{password} sqlmonitorawr.rwl fn0snbuqyccq5
.fi
.P
will create a file named x7.html containing the last found sql monitor in the 
awr repository from the database with con_dbid=3554276882
with sqlid fn0snbuqyccq5.
If multiple entries exist in the awr repository, you will get a warning like
.P
.nf
a total of 32 reports found, generating latest with report_id=7086
re-execute with --show_list_query option to give a query you can execute from SQL*Plus
.fi
.P
As the warning mentions, you can re-execute with an additional --show_list_query option
which will output a query you can copy and paste directly into SQL*Plus.
Subsequently you can choose a specific one using its sql_exec_id.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2021 Oracle Corporation
.br
Licensed under the Universal Permissive License v 1.0
as shown at https://oss.oracle.com/licenses/upl
.SH "SEE ALSO"
rwloadsim(1rwl), sqlmonitor(2rwl)
