.TH sqlmonitor "2rwl" "February 2021" "RWP*Load Simulator" "Workload Syntax"
.SH NAME
sqlmonitor.rwl \- Create sql monitor from gv$sql views
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBrwloadsim [options] -u -l u/p@c sqlmonitor.rwl sqlid \fR
.P
For the provided sqlid, the sqlmonitor.rwl utility creates sql monitor from
the shared pool of the database using dbms_sql_monitor.report_sql_monitor.
The output is written to a file named with the sqlid and a suffix of .html
unless the --output_file option is provided.
Use --output_directory to write the output in a different directory than
the current.
.P
The dbms_sql_monitor.report_sql_monitor has several ways to provide information
about which of potentially many sql monitors to output and some of these
are available using sqlmonitor.rwl
.SH OPTIONS
\fB-u\fR
.RS 4
Compulsory option to find the sqlmonitor.rwl script in the public directory.
.RE
.P
.B -l u/p
.P
.B -l u/p@c
.RS 4
Compulsory option to provide the username, password, and potentially
connect string for a database connection that provides access to
a login with access to gv$sql and dba_hist_sqltext.
If you omit /p, rwloadsim will prompt for the password.
.RE
.P
.B --output_file=<filename>
.RS 4
By default, the output is written to a file named as the sqlid with a suffix
of .html.
Use this option to specify a different filename.
.RE
.P
.B --output_directory=<directory>
.RS 4
By default, the output is written in your current directory.
Use this option to specify a different directory.
.RE
.P
.B --sql_plan_hash_value=value
.RS 4
Provide a value for the sql_plan_hash_value argument to dbms_sql_monitor.report_sql_monitor.
.RE
.P
.B --sql_exec_id=value
.RS 4
Provide a value for the sql_exec_id argument to dbms_sql_monitor.report_sql_monitor.
.RE
.P
.B --sql_exec_start=value
.RS 4
Provide a value which must be a date in the exact format YYYY.MM.DDTHH24:MI:SS with 
a literal T to separate the date part from the time part
for the sql_exec_start argument to dbms_sql_monitor.report_sql_monitor.
.RE
.P
.B --con_name=value
.RS 4
Provide a value for the con_name argument to dbms_sql_monitor.report_sql_monitor.
.RE
.P
\fBsqlid\fR
.RS 4
.P
Exactly one sqlid must be provided.
.RE
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
rwloadsim -ul system/{password} sqlmonitor.rwl 07rw9znc8g7aj
.fi
.P
will create a file named 07rw9znc8g7aj.html containing the sql monitor of the sql
with sqlid 07rw9znc8g7aj.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2021 Oracle Corporation
.br
Licensed under the Universal Permissive License v 1.0
as shown at https://oss.oracle.com/licenses/upl
.SH "SEE ALSO"
rwloadsim(1rwl), sqlreport(2rwl), sqlmonitorawr(2rwl), utilities(2rwl)
