.TH sqlreport "2rwl" "January 2022" "RWP*Load Simulator" "Workload Syntax"
.SH NAME
sqlreport.rwl \- Create a complete sql report
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBrwloadsim [options] -u -l u/p@c sqlreport.rwl sqlid \fR
.P
For the provided sqlid, the sqlreport.rwl utility creates sql a full report by
calling dbms_sql_tune.report_sql_detail, using all default options 
except report_level which is set to 'ALL'.
The output is written to a file named with the sqlid and a suffix of .html
unless the --output_file option is provided.
The file is created in your current directory unless the --output_directory
option is provided.
.P
.SH OPTIONS
\fB-u\fR
.RS 4
Compulsory option to find the sqlreport.rwl script in the public directory.
.RE
.P
.B -l u/p
.P
.B -l u/p@c
.RS 4
Compulsory option to provide the username, password, and potentially
connect string for a database connection that provides access to
a login with access to various gv$ and dba_ views.
If you omit /p, rwloadsim will prompt for the password.
.RE
.P
.B --output_file=<filename>
.RS 4
By default, the output is written to a file named as the sqlid with a suffix
of .html.
Use this option to specify a different filename.
.RE
.P
.B --output_directory=<directory>
.RS 4
By default, the output is written in your current directory.
Use this option to specify a different directory.
.RE
.P
\fBsqlid\fR
.RS 4
.P
Exactly one sqlid must be provided.
.RE
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
rwloadsim -ul system/{password} sqlreport.rwl 07rw9znc8g7aj
.fi
.P
will create a file named 07rw9znc8g7aj.html containing the output from calling
dbms_sqltune.report_sql_detail(sql_id=>'07rw9znc8g7aj',
type=>'active',
report_level=>'ALL')
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2022 Oracle Corporation
.br
Licensed under the Universal Permissive License v 1.0
as shown at https://oss.oracle.com/licenses/upl
.SH "SEE ALSO"
rwloadsim(1rwl), sqlmonitor(2rwl) sqlmonitorawr(2rwl), utilities(2rwl)
