.TH utilities "2rwl" "January 2022" "RWP*Load Simulator" "Utilities"
.SH NAME
utilities \- RWP*Load Simulator overview of utilities
.SH DESCRIPTION
The RWP*Load Simulator installation includes a number of utilities that
are rwl scripts found in the public directory.
This page gives an overview of these.
.P
.B ociping \[dg]
.RS 4
Similar to the normal ping command but showing the time to perform an Oracle Net (SQL*Net) roundtrip.
.RE
.P
.B connping \[dg]
.RS 4
Similar to ociping, but also showing the time taken to perform a database logon.
.RE
.P
.B netthroughput \[dg]
.RS 4
Perform a test of the network throughput from a database to your client.
.RE
.P
.B sqlid2file
.RS 4
Extract SQL statement text from either gv$sql or from the awr repository and write it
to a text file.
.RE
.P
.B sqlreport
.RS 4
Create a detailed sql report using dbms_sqltune.report_sql_detail.
.P
.RE
.P
.B sqlmonitor
.RS 4
Extract a sqlmonitor into an html file from the contents of gv$sql views.
.P
.RE
.P
.B sqlmonitorawr
.RS 4
Extract a sqlmonitor into an html file from the contents of the awr repository.
.P
.RE
.P
.B awrreport \[dg]
.RS 4
Create an awr or ash report from the contents of the awr repository.
This is e.g. very useful if you do not have access to an Oracle 
database server installation, and therefore do not have the
scripts in the $ORACLE_HOME/rdbms/admin directory normally
used for this purpose.
.RE
.P
.B awrdump \[dg]
.RS 4
Make an extract of the awr repository as a data pump file and potentially
copy the file an Oracle Cloud Infrastructure storage bucket.
.RE
.P
.B ashplot
.RS 4
Create a plot of ash data from the contents of the awr repository
or from gv$active_session_history.
The plot can be created as a png or svg image file, or directly to
your screen if you have an X11 environment.
You must have gnuplot available to do this.
.RE
.P
.SH NOTES
These utilities are all shipped as rwl files in the public directory of your rwloadsim distribution.
You therefore need to provide the 
.B -u
option to rwloadsim and the name of the wanted utility including the .rwl file suffix.
For all practical purposes you also need to provide a default database using the
.B -l
option.
.P
In addition to being available as .rwl files, those marked with \[dg] are also available
as executable shell scripts in the bin directory.
The shell scripts do little more than calling rwloadsim with the -u option and the name of the .rwl
file.
For those available as shell scripts, the two calls:
.P
.nf
utility -l u/p@c [options]
rwloadsim -l u/p@c [options] -u utility.rwl
.fi
.P
are for all practical purposes identical and both can be used.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2023 Oracle Corporation
.P
Licensed under the Universal Permissive License v 1.0
as shown at https://oss.oracle.com/licenses/upl
.SH "SEE ALSO"
rwloadsim(1rwl), ociping(2rwl), connping(2rwl), netthroughput(2rwl), 
sqlreport(2rwl), sqlmonitor(2rwl), sqlmonitorawr(2rwl), sqlid2file(2rwl),
awrreport(2rwl), awrdump(2rwl), ashplot(2rwl)
