.TH bengsig "1rwl" "September 2020" "RWP*Load Simulator" "History"
.SH NAME
bengsig \- The RWP*Load Simulator primary developer Bj\[/o]rn Kisbye Engsig.\[pc].
.SH BIOLOGY
Bj\[/o]rn Kisbye Engsig was born in 1958, graduated as an engineer in 1983
and has been working with the Oracle database since 1985.
In a total of more than twenty-five years, he has been an employee of
Oracle Corporation.
.SH OLTP
Measuring performance and scalability of OLTP workloads has always been a challenge
between simplicity and reality.
Mr. Engsig has been working with and developing several tools for simulating OLTP
database load, and started working on the RWP*Load Simulator in 2017.
Lots of experience from actual customer workloads and from other 
ways to investigate in particular OLTP performance has been a primary
driving motivator for rwloadsim.
The difficulty of using SQL*Plus for this purpose combined with
the relatively large time required to use programming languages like Java or C
have also been taken into account.
.P
In 2020, it was decided to make rwloadsim publicly available as an addition
to Oracle's already large set of open source initiatives.
.P
It is the hope that rwloadsim will find its use in many areas of simulation and
measuring of database performance.
Additionally, it can also prove very useful in the more general area of "scripting"
as it fills out the apparent void between standard UNIX tools such as the shell,
awk, SQL*Plus, and Oracle Call Interface.
.SH CONTACT
If you know my email, feel free to contact me.
You many also be able to use Google to search for me.
Otherwise, please use the issues area for rwloadsim on github.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2020 Oracle Corporation
.br
Licensed under the Universal Permissive License v 1.0
as shown at https://oss.oracle.com/licenses/upl
.SH "SEE ALSO"
rwlman(1rwl)
