.TH cqnthread "1rwl" "January 2023" "RWP*Load Simulator" "Program Syntax"
.SH NAME
canthread \- RWP*Load Simulator Continuous Query Notification
.SH SYNTAX
.nf
cqnthread ::= 
\fBquerynotification\fR
  \fBat\fR identifier 
  [ \fBstart\fR expression ]
  \fBstop\fR expression
  \fBwhen\fR
    statementlist
  \fBthen\fR
    statementlist
  \fBend\fR [ \fBquerynotification \fR ] 

.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Rwloadsim includes a limited implemention of CQN, Continuous Query Notification,
which allows for an rwl program to register queries with a callback that will
be executed when the result of the query or queries change.
It uses the OCI_SECURE_NOTIFICATION method to do so, which implies a database
connection will be open as long as the registration is in effect.
.P
It is started as any other thread using rwloadsim's thread execution initiated by
the \fBrun\fR keyword. A CQN registration consists of the following parts that
must be in the sequence shown and
all except the start time are required:
.P
1. 
A database that must be declared as \fBthreads dedicated\fR.
.P
2.
A start time taken relative to the common start time; the default is 0.
.P
3.
A stop time that is taken relative to the common start time.
.P
4.
A statement list that will be executed (once) as part of the registration;
it should typically be one or more queries that will be those registered for.
.P
5.
A statement list that will executed as a callback whenever CQN notices a change
in the result set of the registered queries.
.SH USAGE
The keyword \fBquerynotification\fR initiates the CQN thread,
the keywords \fBat\fR, \fBstart\fR, \fBstop\fR, \fBwhen\fR, \fBthen\fR initiate each of the
five parts, and the keyword \fBend\fR teminates the CQN thread.
Only the start time can be omitted.
The following explains the behavior.
.P
A thread is started, which then establishes a connection to the database; this
connection is held during the whole time until the specified stop time,
which is offset from the common start time like the control loop does it.
When the start time (default 0) is reached, the thread creates an OCISubscription using
the OCI_SECURE_NOTIFICAION method
and with the OCI_ATTR_SUBSCR_CQ_QOSFLAGS set to OCI_SUBSCR_CQ_QOS_QUERY | OCI_SUBSCR_CQ_QOS_BEST_EFFORT.
The statements that are in the \fBwhen\fR part are executed,
and any queries executed will be registered with the OCISubscription.
.P
The callback of the OCISubscription is set to be the code after the \fBthen\fR then part.
This code is therefore executed whenever CQN registers a change of the result set that
is registered.
You would typically want that code to change the values of \fBthreads global\fR variables
such that your rwl program picks up the new values.
.SH NOTES
The CQN feature of rwloadsim should be considered experimental, and changes to syntax
and/or semantics may happen in the future.
.P
A missing start time excplicitly means a start time of 0, i.e. to start at the common start time.
This is different from control loops where a missing start time means to start immediatedly.
.P
Only a small subset of the available possibilities with CQN are available, 
and just some of the missing possibilities are:
.P
Use of any CQN notification fields such as ROWID, registration id and more.
.P
Registration of other events such as DDL and database changes.
.P
Server initiated notification (i.e. not using OCI_SECURE_NOTIFICATION).
.SH EXAMPLE
The following example shows registration of a simple query.
.P
.RS 4
.nf
integer bvalue threads global;

procedure getbvalue(integer x)
  integer b;
  select b from mytable where key=1;
  bvalue := b;
  if x then
    printline "bvalue changed to", bvalue;
  end if;
end;

run
  querynotification at mydb stop 60
  when
    getbvalue(0);
  then
    getbvalue(1);
  end;
end run;
.fi
.P
When executed, the procedure, getbvalue, is called as registration and the query executed
will therefore be the result set that triggers a notification.
The procedure also sets the global variable bvalue to the value retrieved from the database.
.P
Whenever the result set changes (that is
whenever an update to the particular row of the table is performed),
the getbvalue procedure will be called again, this time with an argument of 1.
Therefore, the new value will be retrieved and set to the global variable, and
the new value will be printed.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2023 Oracle Corporation
.br
Licensed under the Universal Permissive License v 1.0
as shown at https://oss.oracle.com/licenses/upl
.SH "SEE ALSO"
cqnthread(1rwl), controlloop(1rwl), statement(1rwl), atclause(1rwl),
proceduredeclaration(1rwl), randomproceduredeclaration(1rwl)
