.TH expression "1rwl" "July 2022" "RWP*Load Simulator" "Program Syntax"
.SH NAME
expression, concatenation, function \- rwl syntax for expressions and standard functions
.SH SYNTAX
.nf
primary_expression ::=
  identifier
| constant
| function
| \fB(\fR concatenation \fB)\fR 
.fi
.P
.nf
function ::=
  \fBuniform\fR \fB(\fR expression \fB,\fR expression \fB)\fR
| ( \fBerlang\fR | \fBerlang2\fR ) \fB(\fR expression \fB)\fR
| \fBerlangk\fR \fB(\fR expression \fB,\fR expression \fB)\fR
| \fBnormalrandom\fR \fB(\fR expression \fB,\fR expression \fB)\fR
| ( \fBsqrt\fR | \fBround\fR ) \fB(\fR expression \fB)\fR
| ( \fBexp\fR | \fBlog\fR ) \fB(\fR [ expression \fB,\fR) ] expression \fB)\fR
| \fBlengthb\fR \fB(\fR concatenation \fB)\fR
| \fBinstrb\fR \fB(\fR concatenation \fB,\fR concatenation  [ \fB,\fR expression ] \fB)\fR
| \fBsubstrb\fR \fB(\fR concatenation \fB,\fR expression [ \fB,\fR expression ] \fB)\fR
| \fBsql_id\fR \fB(\fR identifier \fB)\fR
| ( \fBactivesessioncount\fR | \fBopensessioncount\fR ) \fB(\fR identifier \fB)\fR
| ( \fBserverrelease\fR ) \fB(\fR identifier | \fBdefault\fR | \fBresults\fR \fB)\fR
| ( \fBrunseconds\fR | \fBepochseconds\fR ) \fB()\fR
| \fBgetenv\fR \fB(\fR expression \fB)\fR
| \fBsystem\fR \fB(\fR concatenation [ \fB,\fR identifier ] \fB)\fR
| \fBaccess\fR \fB(\fR concatenation \fB,\fR expression \fB)\fR
| \fBdefined\fR \fB(\fR identifier \fB)\fR
| \fBdefined ( default database )\fR
| identifier \fB(\fR [ concatenation { \fB,\fR concatenation } ] \fB)\fR
.fi
.P
.nf
unary_expression ::=
  primary_expression [ \fBis\fR [ \fBnot\fR ] \fBnull\fR ]
| ( \fB-\fR | \fB!\fR | \fBnot\fR ) multiplication
.fi
.P
.nf
multiplication ::=
  unary_expression
| multiplication ( \fB*\fR | \fB/\fR | \fB%\fR ) unary_expression
.fi
.P
.nf
addition ::=
  multiplication
| addition ( \fB+\fR | \fB-\fR ) multiplication
.fi
.P
.nf
comparison ::=
  addition
| comparison ( \fB<\fR | \fB>\fR | \fB<=\fR | \fB>=\fR ) addition
| comparison \fBbetween\fR addition \fBand\fR addition
.fi
.P
.nf
equality ::=
  comparison
| equality ( \fB=\fR | \fB!=\fR | \fB<>\fR ) comparison
.fi
.P
.nf
logicaland ::=
  equality
| logicaland \fBand\fR equality
.fi
.P
.nf
logicalor ::=
  logicaland
| logicalor \fBor\fR logicaland
.fi
.P
.nf
conditional ::=
  logicalor
| logicalor \fB?\fR conditional \fB:\fR conditional
.fi
.P
.nf
expression ::=
  conditional
| expression \fB||\fR conditional
.fi
.P
.nf
concatenation ::=
  expression { expression }
.fi
.P
.nf
constant ::=
  integer
| string
| digit { digit } \fB.\fR { digit } { exponent }
| digit { digit } { exponent }
| \fBnull\fR
.fi
.P
integer ::= digit { digit }
.P
.nf
digit ::= \fB0\fR | \fB1\fR | \fB2\fR | \fB3\fR | \fB4\fR | \fB5\fR | \fB6\fR | \fB7\fR | \fB8\fR | \fB9\fR
.fi
.P
.nf
exponent ::= \fBe\fR [ \fB+\fR | \fB-\fR ] digit { digit }

.nf
string ::=
  \fB"\fR {character} \fB"\fR
| \fB$\fR ( \fBA\fR | \fBB\fR | ... \fBZ\fR { \fBA\fR | \fBB\fR ... | \fB0\fR | \fB1\fR ... | \fB_\fR }
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
In the RWP*Load Simulator, expressions are very similar to expressions in any other
programming language with operator precedence, association etc.
The operator syntax is a mix of operators from C and SQL.
.P
String concatenation has the same syntax as in the SQL language, i.e. using
.B ||
as the concatenation operator.
However, in many contexts where a disambiguation does not exist, the operator can 
be omitted.
See NOTE below for details.
.P
Although variables are declared with some type (integer, double, string) they are internally
always represented as all three types, similar to how awk does it. 
Type conversion is implicit and behaves similar to how it is done in C.
As an example if a is a double variable, \fBa:=1/2\fR will assign the double value 0.0 to a
since the division is done using integer arithmetic.
If at least one operator of an expression is double, double arithemetic will be used.
Therefore \fBa:=1.0/2\fR will assign the double value 0.5 to a.
The same rules apply to numeric comparisons.
.P
If a double result is assigned to an integer variable or used in another context where an integer
is expected, the standard function trunc(3) is applied to the double value.
.P
Strings are implicitly converted to integer or double without error handling similar to how
atoi(3) or atof(3) do it.
If complete control of this is needed, it is recommended to only use variables and functions of one
specific type in the expression.
.SH CONSTANTS
In rwloadsim, you can have constants of type integer, double or string
and the additional constant \fBnull\fR.
Integer constants are sequences of digits,
double constants are sequences of digits, a decimal dot, and potentially another sequence of digits.
Double constants can additionally have an exponent which is the letter e (or E),
potentially followed by + or - and terminated by a sequence of digits.
.P
A potential
.B -
in front of an integer or double constant is not part of the constant;
where appropriate,
it will be parsed as the unary minus operator.
.P
Strings are delimited by double quotes and they can span newline
in which case the newline becomes part of the string unless preceded by \\.
Within a string a backslash initiates one of the following escapes:
.RS 4
.P 
\\" represents the double quote character
.P 
\\\\ represents a backslash
.P
\\t represents the TAB character
.P
\\n represents newline
.P
\\e represents the ESC characters
.P
\\r represents the CR character
.P
.RE
No other escapes are allowed.
.P
In string constants, all characters in your terminals character set are allowed;
however, they are always treated as a sequence of bytes.
You must always ensure the NLS_LANG environment variable includes the correct
setting for the actual character used by your terminal session.
.P
Environment variables of the form $NAME where NAME is upper
case potentially followed by uppercase, underscore or digits
are also string constants.
Except when used in the
.B $if $then
directive, attempts at using non existing environment
variables cause a warning to be displayed.
Due to the fact that expressions are always calculated as all three simple types,
you can assign such environment variables to integers and doubles.
.P
Please note that $ followed by lower case are directives, so you cannot expand
environment variables in lower case using $.
If needed, use the getenv() function.
.P
There are also variables named $#, $1, $2, etc, see identifier(1rwl).
.P 
A random string array is treated like a string constant.
.SH OPERATORS
The rwl language has the following operators in order of precedence.
All logical operators have the result 1 when true and 0 when false, and all operators
operating on logic values use 0 as false and any other value as true.
Except when noted, operators are dyadic.
.TP 14
.B "is null"
.TP
.B "is not null"
Similar to their equivalents in the SQL language; these are monadic and post-fix.
.TP
.B "- ! not"
These monadic prefix operators are respectively numeric negative and two synonyms for boolean not.
.TP
.B "* / %"
Multiplication, division and integer remainder.
.TP
.B "+ -"
Addition and subtraction.
.TP
.B "< <= > >="
.TP
.B "between and"
The first four are the standard inequality comparison operators.
The latter is
like its counterpart in the SQL language and is a triadic operator.
If either operand is numeric, all comparisons are done on the numeric value; 
If both operands are string, all comparisons are done using the byte values
of the strings.
All operands of the
.B between and
operator are calculated irrespective of their values.
.TP
.B "= <> !="
Equality and two synonyms for inequality comparison.
The type rules are the same as for the comparison operators.
.TP
.B and
Logical and; if the first operand is 0, the second operand is not calculated.
.TP
.B or
Logical or; if the first operand is not 0, the second operand is not calculated.
.TP
.B ? :
Comparison operator as found in the C programming language.
Only one of the second and third operand is calculated depending on the value of the first.
.TP
.B ||
String concatenation.
Note that in most cases, the concatenation operator can be omitted as two expressions 
immediately after each other are taken as concatenation.
See NOTE below.
.SH FUNCTIONS
User declared functions can be called as part of expression evaluation using the syntax
.P
.B name( arguments )
.P
where arguments is a potentially empty list of comma-separated expressions; note
that functions without arguments still require the parenthesis.
.P
The following lists all built-in functions.
Note that neither user defined nor built-in functions are available in a
.B $if $then
directive, except when explicitly noted.
.TP 14
.B uniform(a,b)
Return a random uniformly distributed number.
If either of the arguments are double, the result is a double value
greater than or equal to the value
of the first argument and less than the second argument.
If both arguments are integer, the result will be an integer greater than or equal to the value
of the first argument and less than or equal to the second argument.
.TP
.B erlang(a) erlang2(a)
Return a random double value with an average of a.
The value will be erlang distributed with k=1 or k=2 respectively.
Erlang distribution with k=1 is also known as exponential distribution.
Erlang distribution with k=2 is often used when simulating expected arrival rates.
.TP
.B erlangk(k,a)
Return a random value with an average of a using an erlang k distribution.
Only the integer part of k is used.
.TP
.B normalrandom(a,s)
Return a normal distributed random value with an average of a and
a standard deviation of s.
.TP
.B sqrt(a)
Return the square root of the argument.
.TP
.B round(a)
Return the value of the argument rounded to an integer.
Note that the return values is a double as in the C function of the same name.
.TP
.B exp(p,a) exp(a)
Return the value of p raised to the power a.
If p is omitted, return e raised to the power of a.
.TP
.B log(l,a) log(a)
Return the logarithm of base l, respectively e, of the argument a.
.TP
.B lengthb(s)
Return the length in bytes of the string s.
.TP
.B instrb(x,s) instrb(x,s,p)
Returns the byte position (starting at 1) of the string s in the string x or 0 if not found.
With three arguments, start the search at position p.
Semantics is like the same function in SQL with two or three arguments,
although negative values for p are not allowed.
.TP
.B substrb(s,p) substrb(s,p,l)
Returns a sub-string of its first argument, starting at byte position p; if l is specified
that number of bytes will be returned.
Semantics is like the same function in SQL.
.TP
.B sql_id(n)
Returns the sqlid of the named identifier which must be a sql statement.
The function is only available if both the client and the server are release 12.2 or newer, 
and the value is only available after the sql statement has been executed.
.TP
.B activesessioncount(n) opensessioncount(n)
The argument must be an identifier naming a database using a sessionpool,
and the value returned is respectively the OCI_ATTR_SPOOL_BUSY_COUNT or OCI_ATTR_SPOOL_OPEN_COUNT 
from the associated session pool handle.
.TP
.B serverrelease(n)
The argument must be an identifier naming a database or either of the keywords
.B default
or
.B results
and the return value is the five
element release of that database as a string in the format a.b.c.d.e.
.TP
.B runseconds()
A double function taking no arguments, which returns the time-stamp with microsecond resolution since the
common start time of all control loops in threads.
It is available in both the main and worker threads, and the value can be negative.
.TP
.B epochseconds()
A double function taking no arguments, which returns the UNIX epoch in seconds.
The resolution is normally microseconds, but it depends on the resolution
of the gettimeofday(2) system call.
.TP
.B getenv(s)
Return the value of the environment variable provided as the argument.
If the environment variable does not exist, an empty string is returned.
.TP
.B system(s) system(s,n)
Execute the first argument as an operating system command and return the exit code from
its execution.
If there is a second argument, it must be the name of a string variable into which the 
stdout from the execution is stored.
If the last character in stdout from the call is a newline (which is normally the case),
the newline is removed.
This is somewhat equivalent to doing something like n=`$s` in the shell.
Note that there also is a system statement that can be used if the return
value can be ignored.
.TP
.B access(f,c)
Return true (1) if the file named as the first argument has the access explained as the 
second argument.
The second argument must be a combination of the characters
\fBr\fR, 
\fBw\fR, 
\fBx\fR, 
\fBf\fR, 
\fBd\fR,
\fBu\fR, 
\fBp\fR, 
\fBc\fR, 
The first three refer to the standard access methods, f means check if the path refers
to an ordinary file, d to check if it refers to a directory.
The directories that are checked can be modified using the last three characters:
If the character u is present, the public directory will also be checked, if the 
character p is present, all entries in the RWLOADSIM_PATH environment will be checked
and if the character c is present, the current directory will 
.I not
be checked.
As an exception to the general rule, this function is available in
.B $if $then
directives.
.TP
.B defined(n) defined(default database)
The first call returns true if the identifier named as its
argument has been defined and can be used.
As an example, a database that has not connected succesfully will return false.
The second call returns true if there is default database declared
and it has connected succesfully.
The function is only available inside the 
.B $if $then
directive.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
# assign either 1 or 2 with equal probability to the variable a
integer a := uniform(1,2); 

# assign a random number at least 0 but smaller than 1 to the variable d
double d := uniform(0.0,1.0);

# Print a line telling if this is executed by root or not
printline access("/root","dw") ? "you are root" : "you are not root";

# Print the value of a, then a :, then the value of d.
printline a ":" d;
.fi
.SH NOTES
An identifier followed by a left parenthesis is always taken as the beginning of a function call.
In a context with attempted concatenation such as 
.PP
.nf
printline "aaa and expression " aaa ( 1+2+3 );
.fi
.PP
the name aaa is assumed to be a function implying there is no implicit concatenation of a variable
named aaa and a parenthesized expression 1+2+3.
Hence, if you want this to be taken as a concatenation of the variable and the expression,
you need to use an explicit concatenation operator as shown here:
.PP
.nf
printline "aaa and expression " aaa || ( 1+2+3 );
.fi
.PP
or alternatively simply omit the parenthesis.
.P
For legacy reasons, you can write \fBrunsecons\fR and \fBepochseconds\fR without the empty set of
parantheses; this usage is deprecated and will be desuported in some future release.
.SH BUGS
If the
.B serverrelease
function is used with a database version 18 or later
when the client is version 12 or earlier, only the major release (the first number) is correct.
This is not a bug in rwloadsim itself.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2022 Oracle Corporation
.br
Licensed under the Universal Permissive License v 1.0
as shown at https://oss.oracle.com/licenses/upl
.SH "SEE ALSO"
identifier(1rwl), simpledeclaration(1rwl), statement(1rwl), declaration(1rwl),
functiondeclaration(1rwl), atoi(3), atof(3), randomstringdeclaration(1rwl)
