.TH filestatement "1rwl" "September 2020" "RWP*Load Simulator" "Program Syntax"
.SH NAME
file, filestatement \- RWP*Load Simulator use of files
.SH SYNTAX
identifier
.B :=
expression
.P
identifier
.B := null
.P
.nf
filestatement ::= 
  \fBwrite\fR identifier \fB,\fR concatenation { \fB,\fR concatenation }
| \fBwriteline\fR identifier { \fB,\fR concatenation }
| \fBreadline\fR identifier \fB,\fR identifier { \fB,\fR identifier }
| \fBfflush\fR identifier
| \fBprint\fR concatenation { \fB,\fR concatenation }
| \fBprintline\fR concatenation { \fB,\fR concatenation }
| \fBprintline\fR

readloop ::=
  \fBfor\fR \fBreadline\fR identifier \fB,\fR identifier { \fB,\fR identifier } [ \fBand\fR expression ]
  \fBloop\fR
    statementlist
  \fBend\fR [ \fBloop\fR ]
.fi
.P
.SH DESCRIPTION
File in rwloadsim is implemented using FILE * from the standard I/O library in C.
A file is declared like other simple types and can be declared globally, privately or
locally, but 
.I cannot
be used as an argument to procedures or functions.
Files are treated line-oriented although they are fully buffered by the standard I/O
library.  
Files can be opened for reading and writing similar to how the fopen(3) call does it
and can be used as pipe-lines similar to how popen(3) does it.
.P
To open a file, assign an expression containing a string to the variable,
and to close a file, assign
.B null
to it.
.SH USAGE
.P
v \fB:=\fR e 
.RS 4
Open the variable, v, which must be a file by assigning an expression, e, to it.
The expression must be a string that is interpreted by the following rules:
.P
If the first two characters of the string are
.BR >> ,
open the file for append with the name starting at the third character, i.e. use fopen with a second argument of "a".
.P
If the first character of the string is
.BR < ,
open the file for read with the name starting at the second character, i.e. use fopen
with a second argument of "r".
.P
If the first character of the string is
.BR | ,
open a pipe-line for writing using the command starting at the second character, i.e. use popen 
with a second argument of "w".
.P
If the last character of the string is
.BR | ,
open a pipe-line for reading with a command that finishes
with the character just before the terminating |, i.e. use popen with a second argument of "r".
.P
If the first character of the string is
.B >
or if none of the mentioned first or last characters are special,
open the file named by the string expression (or the first character after >) for writing,
i.e. use fopen with a second argument of "w".
The optional > exists for consistency with the use of <, >> or |.
.P
In the cases where an ordinary file (and not a pipe-line) is opened, environment expansion
of $NAME or ${NAME} is done similar to how it is done in the shell, unless the 
.B --no-nameexpand
option or the
.B $namexpand:off
directive is in effect. 
This is not done for pipelines, although the popen call is likely to do it.
.P
If the expression is 
.B null
the file will be closed or the pipe-line terminated.
.RE
.P
\fBwrite\fR v, e1 [, e2, ... ] 
.P
\fBprint\fR e1 [, e2, ... ]
.P
\fBwriteline\fR v [, e1 ... ]
.P
\fBprintline\fR [e1 ... ]
.RS 4
Write the concatenations e1, e2, etc to the named file with a single space character between each.
The
.B writeline
statement (that does not require any actual concatenation arguments) will additionally
write a new-line.
The 
.B print
and
.B printline
perform the same although writing to stdout.
.P
.RE
.B fflush
v
.RS 4
Flush the file identified by the variable v; this effectively calls fflush(3).
.RE
.P
.B readline
v,s
.RS 4
The identifier v must be a file, and the identifier s must be a string.
The statement reads one line from the file up to and including the newline
character and assigns the line except the terminating newline character to the string s.
.RE
.P
\fBreadline\fR v\fB,\fR i1\fB,\fR i2\fB,\fR  ...
.RS 4
The identifier v must be a file from which a line is read.
The line is split into white-space separated tokens that are assigned 
to the variable i1, i2, etc.
If fewer tokens than variables are found, the last will be assigned
.B null
even if they are of type string.
If there are too few variables to receive all tokens, the last variable
will have the remaining part of the line assigned to it.
In all cases, if the variables are not of type string, the usual implicit
conversion to either integer or double will take place.
.P 
.RE
.PP
\fBfor readline\fR v\fB, \fRi1\fB,\fR i2 \fBand\fR e \fBloop\fR s;s;s; \fBend\fR
.RS 4
The readloop reads
.I lines
from a file and writes them into variables.
The first identifier, v, must be a variable of type file that is open for read.
The semantics of the readline loop is somewhat similar to the semantics of doing something like
.B while read ... ; do
in the shell.
If there is only one variable, i1, in addition to the file variable, that variable must be of type
string and the full line read from the file (excluding the terminating newline)
will be saved in that variable.
.P
If there are multiple variables, i1, i2, ... they can be of type integer, double or string.
In that case, it is assumed that each line of the file contains white-space separated tokens.
The first of these will be saved in the first variable, i1,
the second in the second variable, i2, etc.
If there are more tokens in the line read from the file than there are variables to save those into,
the last variable will contain the remaining part of the line.
If there are fewer tokens in the line read from the file than there are variables, the last ones
will be \fBnull\fR, even if they are of type string.
.P
If you need more complex processing of input lines, use the first form with only
one string variable to contain the whole line, which you subsequently process using
\fBregex\fR or \fBregexextract\fR.
.P
When end-of-file is reached, the loop terminates; you still need to explicitly close the file.
.P
The optional \fBand\fR expression before the \fBloop\fR keyword,
causes reading to stop when the expression, e, is zero;
You can similarly use a \fBbreak\fR statement.
In either case, you can continue reading from the file.
.RE
.SH NOTES
You can operate on stdin, stdout or stderr by using the predefined variables named
.BR stdin ,
.B stdout
or
.B stderr
respectively.
Do not close these.
.P
Otherwise, it is an error not to close files or pipe-lines.
.P
Files and pipe-lines can very well be opened, operated upon and closed in threads.
If you open files with the same name in multiple threads, the behavior is unspecified.
.P
If you have files opened for read in your main program, they will be closed in threads.
This is also the case for stdin.
.P
If you have files opened for write in your main program, they will continue to be open
in threads.
However, there is 
.I no guarantee
that the writes from different threads are going to be separated.
In fact, it is typically the case that writes from different threads will be mixed, 
even if you use
.BR fflush .
This behavior is also happening for stdout and stderr.
.P
The readline statement as well as the readloop read the line from their input into
a buffer that by default is 2050 bytes long.
If the actual line is longer than 2050 bytes, it will be truncated and an error
will be printed.  
The buffer can be increased using the 
.B --readbuffer
option to rwloadsim.
.SH NOTES
Note that the default (without any "redirection" characters) is to open the file for writing,
although open for reading may be considered safer and less error prone.
This is legacy from earlierly versions of rwloadsim, but is hard to change due to large amounts
of exising code.
.SH EXAMPLES
Still to come.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2021 Oracle Corporation
.br
Licensed under the Universal Permissive License v 1.0
as shown at https://oss.oracle.com/licenses/upl
.SH "SEE ALSO"
variable(1rwl), statement(1rwl), threadexecution(1rwl),
expression(1rwl), readloop(1rwl), compoundstatement(1rwl)
