.TH histogram "1rwl" "September 2020" "RWP*Load Simulator" "Program Syntax"
.SH NAME
histogram \- RWP*Load Simulator histogram table and histogram_a, fractiles views
.SH DECLARATION
The 
.B histogram
table and associated views show the distribution of total execution time,
which is the sum of the time spent waiting for a session and the time
spent execution the actual code of the procedure,
over a series of "buckets", each being twice is wide as the previous one.
.P
.nf
create table histogram
( runnumber number not null
, procno    number not null
, vname     varchar2(30) not null
, buckno    number not null
, bucktim   number as (power(2.0,(buckno-19))) virtual
, bcount    number
, ttime     number (*,6)
, constraint histogram_pk primary key(runnumber, procno, vname, buckno)
)
.fi
.P
.nf
create view histogram_a
( runnumber
, pcount
, vname
, buckno
, bucktim
, bcount
, ttime
, atime
)
.fi
.P
.nf
create view fractiles
( runnumber
, vname
, bucktim
, bcount
, fractile
)
.fi
.SH COLUMNS
\fBrunnumber\fR
.RS 4
This is the number that uniquely identifies a run.
.RE
.P
\fBprocno pcount\fR
.RS 4
In single process runs, procno is zero, in multi-process runs, it gets its value from the Operating
System process number or from the -p option to rwloadsim.  
In the aggregate view, histogram_a, the total process count is in the pcount column.
.RE
.P
\fBvname\fR
.RS 4
This is the name of the procedure being executed.
.RE
.P
\fBbuckno\fR
.RS 4
The number of this bucket.
.RE
.P
\fBbucktim\fR
.RS 4
This bucket covers the range from 0.5*bucktim until bucktim.
.RE
.P
\fBbcount\fR
.RS 4
Number of executions that has a time within the range of this bucket.
.RE
.P
\fBttime\fR
.RS 4
Total time of all executions that are within the range of this bucket.
.RE
.P
\fBatime\fR
.RS 4
Average time of all executions that are within the range of this bucket.
.RE
.P
\fBfractile\fR
.RS 4
The percentage of executions that are at least as fast as bucktim.
.RE
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2022 Oracle Corporation
.P
Licensed under the Universal Permissive License v 1.0
as shown at https://oss.oracle.com/licenses/upl
.SH "SEE ALSO"
statistics(1rwl)
