.TH include "1rwl" "July 2022" "RWP*Load Simulator" "Program Syntax"
.SH NAME
$include \- RWP*Load Simulator directive for file inclusion
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB$include:"\fRfilename\fB"\fR
.P
.BR $include:< filename >
.SH DESCRIPTION
Includes the named file (the name cannot contain the characters ", < or >)
very similar to what #include does in C or @ does in sqlplus.
As an example, this can be used to replace a long list of file names provided
as arguments to rwloadsim by a single file having multiple
.B $include
directives.
.P
.B $include
files can themselves contain other
.B $include
directives for multiple levels of inclusion.
You can only use
.B $include
when you are not parsing a statement, declaration or thread execution
and the file included must similarly contain a complete rwl program element.
The double quote or < > characters are part of the
.B $include
directive.
Unless -no-nameexpand option or the $nameexpand:off directive is used,
environment names in either $NAME or ${NAME} syntax will be expanded
before opening the include file.
The same syntax with $ for environment expansion is also used on Microsoft Windows.
You can also use $n where n is a single digit between 1 and 9 to expand the value of a positional
argument to rwloadsim.
.P
If the filename is embedded within the characters < and > instead of ",
the name cannot start with . or / and
the current directory will not be searched for the file; in stead the public directory will
be searched first.
In any case, unless the the first character of the file is / or ., the search path environment variable RWLOADSIM_PATH will be searched for the file.
If the 
.B --publicsearch
option is provided, and the file name is embedded within " characters,
the public directory will be search before any directories
in the RWLOADSIM_PATH environment.
.SH EXAMPLES
Include two files from the current directory:
.P
.RS 4
.nf
\fC
$include:"myfile1.rwl"
$include:"myfile2.rwl"
\fR
.fi
.RE
.P
If you save the following in a file named with a .rwl suffix
.P
.RS 4
.nf
\fC
$longoption:publicsearch
$include:<ovid2.rwl>

integer i;
for i := 1..10 loop
  printline ovidstring(i);
end loop;
\fR
.fi
.P
you can execute it using rwloadsim without any other options than the filename.
The
.B $longoption:publicsearch
directive enables the search for include files in the public directory,
from where the next directive
.B $include:<ovid2.rwl>
will cause the file ovid2.rwl to be included.
The function, ovidstring(), defined in there is then executed ten times
displaying different lines of gibberish.
.SH "STANDARD INCLUDE FILES"
The following lists all files that are available in the public directory for include in your rwl program.
.P
.B ovid2.rwl
.RS 4
Provides functions that can be used to create random but nicely looking strings.
.RE
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2023 Oracle Corporation
.PP
Licensed under the Universal Permissive License v 1.0
as shown at https://oss.oracle.com/licenses/upl
.SH "SEE ALSO"
rwl(1rwl), directive(1rwl), rwloadsim(1rwl), ovid2(2rwl)
