.TH multiprocess "1rwl" "July 2022" "RWP*Load Simulator" "Program Syntax"
.SH NAME
multiprocess \- RWP*Load Simulator execution multi-process execution
.SH SYNOPSIS
Execution of a single rwloadsim process may not be sufficient to run a complex workload,
both due to complexity or due to the need to run a high number of threads concurrently.
You can therefore run rwloadsim in multi-process mode, that consist of a preparation step
followed by an actual execution with several concurrently running rwloadsim processes.
In a multi-process run, statistics will be saved by each rwloadsim process as in ordinary
runs, but all processes will use the same runnumber.
For subsequent reporting, graphing, etc, the multi processes therefore appear as a single run.
.P
Multi-process runs require a repository database and the first step 
gets the runnumber from a sequence in the repository database.
Additionally, it is during the first step that the common start time is defined using
the -c option to rwloadsim.
.SH PREPARATION
To prepare a multi-process run, first execute rwloadsim only providing the input file (or files) 
needed to make a connection to the repository database.
You are recommended not providing any other input files, except if you need to
execute some code during this step; examples of such code could be code that inserts or
updates certain aspect of the repository that are relevant for the whole run.
.P
You must also provide the -P option with the name of a file where rwloadsim will write
information needed by the subsequent actual simulation run.
The contents will be one line of text without any white-space.
In the current release, the contents is in the format NNN:SSSSSSSS.MMM, where NNN is
the runnumber and the rest represents the common start time
for all control loops
since some epoch with ms resolution.
This contents may change in a future release of rwloadsim
and you are strongly advised against depending on the format of the file.
.P
As more preparation, setup, creation of session pools, etc. would be required by a 
multi-process run, you should normally always provide the -c option with a value higher
than the default of 5s setting the common control loop start time further into the future.
.SH EXECUTION
Each rwloadsim process that is part of your actual execution must be started with either
the -R or -M option.
They have the same purpose so you can use the one that suits your scripting model best.
.P
The -R option takes the name of the prepare file that was created in your prepare run
as its option value.
The -M option takes the contents of the prepare file (which is a single line)
as a text string as its option value.
.P
The input file(s) and potentially arguments provided to each rwloadsim program should
implement your entire workload and you can very well start rwloadsim processes with different
(but to you related) workloads and/or start multiple processes with the same.
.P
If needed for your subsequent reporting or graphing, use the -p option to set a number
that each rwloadsim process will use when it saves statistics into the repository tables.
If not provided, the process number from the Operating System will be used.
.P
If required, you can use ssh to have other systems involved in a single multi-process run;
if doing so, all systems involved must have their system time coordinated e.g. via ntp.
.SH EXAMPLE
This small example shows how you can use multi-process execution:
.P
.RS 4
.nf
# prepare a run setting common start time 10s into the future
rwloadsim -P prepfile.txt -c 10 repository.rwl

# start five ordinary executions in background
for pno in 1 2 3 4 5
do
  rwloadsim -R prepfile.txt -p $pno fullrun.rwl &
done

# Use ssh to start a run with some special stuff on another host
ssh systemhost rwloadsim -p 0 -M `cat prepfile.txt` systemstuff.rwl &

# wait for all to complete
wait
.fi
.RE
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2023 Oracle Corporation
.P
Licensed under the Universal Permissive License v 1.0
as shown at https://oss.oracle.com/licenses/upl
.SH "SEE ALSO"
statistics(1rwl), rwloadsim(1rwl)
