.TH oerstats "1rwl" "July 2022" "RWP*Load Simulator" "Program Syntax"
.SH NAME
oerstats \- RWP*Load Simulator oerstats table
.SH DESCRIPTION
Whenever an rwloadsim program receives an ORA- error, the error will be output to stderr, but execution
will by default continue. 
If running with the --oerstats option, the occurrence of the error will additionally by saved in
the oerstats table in the repository database.
.SH DECLARATION
.nf
\fC
create table oerstats
( runnumber number not null
, procno    number not null
, oer       number not null
, second    number(*,6) not null
, oertxt    varchar2(70) 
, sname     varchar2(30) 
, oeseq     number not null
, oerinst   varchar2(16) 
, constraint oerstats_pk primary key(runnumber, procno, oeseq)
)
\fR
.fi
.SH COLUMNS
\fBrunnumber\fR
.RS 4
This is the number that uniquely identifies a run, it is retrieved from a
sequence number for each run that saves statistics.
.RE
.P
\fBoer\fR
.RS 4
The Oracle error number.
.RE
.P
\fBsecond\fR
.RS 4
The time-stamp when the Oracle error was received in seconds since the common start time.
.RE
.P
\fBoertxt\fR
.RS 4
The error text truncated to 70 characters.
.RE
.P
\fBsname\fR
.RS 4
If available, the variable name of the sql causing the error, otherwise the 
name of the procedure or function.
.RE
.P
\fBoeseq\fR
.RS 4
A number without any particular meaning; it only exists to allow this table to have
a primary key.
.RE
.P
\fBoerinst\fR
.RS 4
The name of the instance that the session was connected to; this is
also found in v$instance.instance_name.
It is retrieved as the OCI_ATTR_INSTNAME of the service context and it will be save
as NULL if it does not exist, which could be the case in case of connection errors.
.RE
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2023 Oracle Corporation
.P
Licensed under the Universal Permissive License v 1.0
as shown at https://oss.oracle.com/licenses/upl
.SH "SEE ALSO"
statistics(1rwl), directive(1rwl)
