.TH percentiles "1rwl" "September 2020" "RWP*Load Simulator" "Program Syntax"
.SH NAME
rwlman \- RWP*Load Simulator percentiles view
.SH DECLARATION
The 
.B percentiles
view shows execution time limits for different percentiles of executions of
each procedure; the values can be compared to typical service level agreements
stating that a certain percentage of executions must be faster than some limit.
The time is the sum of the time spent waiting for a session and the time
spent executing the actual code of the procedure.
The time limits for 50%, 90%, 95%, 98%, 99%, 99.5%, 99.8%, 99.9% and 99.95% of executions are
present in the view.
.P
.nf
create view percentiles
( runnumber
, vname
, avgt
, pct50
, pct90
, pct95
, pct98
, pct99
, pct995
, pct998
, pct999
, pct9995
)
.fi
.P
.SH COLUMNS
\fBrunnumber\fR
.RS 4
This is the number that uniquely identifies a run.
.RE
.P
\fBvname\fR
.RS 4
This is the name of the procedure being executed.
.RE
.P
\fBavgt\fR
.RS 4
The average time of all executions.
.RE
.P
\fBpct50 ... pct9995\fR
.RS 4
The time limit for 50%, etc. until 99.95% of the executions.
.RE
.P
.SH NOTES
The values in this view are statistical and based on the counts of executions in each 
bucket of the histogram_a view.  
If the number of executions in a bucket is low, there will be statistical errors in this
calculation.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2022 Oracle Corporation
.P
Licensed under the Universal Permissive License v 1.0
as shown at https://oss.oracle.com/licenses/upl
.SH "SEE ALSO"
statistics(1rwl), histogram(1rwl)
