.TH proceduredeclaration "1rwl" "September 2020" "RWP*Load Simulator" "Program Syntax"
.SH NAME
procedure declaration, function declaration \- RWP*Load Simulator declaration of procedures and functions
.SH SYNTAX
.nf
proceduredeclaration ::=
[ \fBprivate\fR ] \fBprocedure\fR identifier 
  \fB(\fR [ argumentlist ] \fB)\fR [ \fBstatistics\fR | \fBnostatistics\fR ] [ \fBis\fR ] 
  statementlist
  \fBend\fR [ \fBprocedure\fR | identifier ]

functiondeclaration ::=
[ \fBprivate\fR ] \fBfunction\fR identifier
  \fB(\fR [ argumentlist ] \fB)\fR \fBreturn\fR simpledatatype [ \fBis\fR ] 
  statementlist
  \fBend\fR [ \fBfunction\fR | identifier ]

argumentlist ::=
argument { \fB,\fR argument }

argument ::=
simpledatatype identifier

simpledatatype ::=
  \fBstring\fR [ \fB(\fR expression \fB)\fR ]
| \fBinteger\fR
| \fBdouble\fR
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Procedure and functions are a primary structure in rwloadsim, which like in many other
programming language wrap a list of statements for execution.
Both have a potentially empty list of arguments; if empty, the parentheses must still be there.
The arguments and the return type for functions can be of type integer, double or string;
a string without a specified length is 128 bytes by default.
The actual value of the string length must be available during parsing.
The
.B is
keyword is optional.
.P
Procedures are often created such that they implement some type of simulated business logic
and are as such called repeatedly using control loops to simulate some workload.
They can therefore have statistics associated with them, which includes thing like execution times,
number of executions, etc.
If the procedure contains any execution of SQL, such statistics are collected by default;
using the 
.B nostatistics
keyword turns this off.
If the procedure does not contain any execution of SQL, you can provide the
.B statistics
keyword;
doing so will enable statistics collection for the procedure and will additionally make
rwloadsim treat the procedure as if it were doing SQL execution.
This again will imply the procedure will ensure a database connection exists (e.g. by
getting on from a session pool).
.P
Functions never have statistics collected, even if they contain SQL execution.
Functions must have a return type and must have at least one 
.B return
statement in their statement list.
If you exit from a function other than via a 
.B return
statement, the behavior is unspecified.
.P
The terminating 
.B end
can optionally be followed by the appropriate keyword or by the name of the
procedure or function.
.P
If either declaration has an initial
.B private
keyword,
the procedure or function will only be available within the source file
where it has been declared.
.SH EXAMPLES
.P
Declare a function that will add two doubles and return their sum
rounded to integer.
.P
.RS 4
.nf
function add(double a, double b)
return integer
is
  return round(a+b);
end add;
.fi
.RE
.P
Declare a procedure that simulates the business transaction "create order".
Note that some variable declarations are omitted.
.P
.RS 4
.nf
procedure create_order(integer linecount)

  integer custno, ordno, i, prodcode, amount;
  custno := uniform(1,maxcustomer); # Choose a random customer

  sql insert_order
    # Insert the order header returning orderno from sequence
    insert into order_header (orderno, custno)
    values (order_sequence.nextval, :custno)
    returning orderno into :ordno;
    bind ":custno" custno;
    bindout ":ordno", ordno;
  end insert_order;

  sql insert_line
    # Insert the order lines
    insert into orderlines
    ( ordno, linno, product, amount )
    values
    ( :b1, :b2, :b3, :b4);
    bind 1 ordno, 2 i, 3 prodcode, 4 amount;
    array 10;
  end insert_line;

  insert_order;
  for i:=1 .. linecount loop
    prodcode := uniform(1,maxproducts); # A random product
    amount := 1 + round(erlang(10)); # At least one
    insert_line; 
  end loop;
  commit;
end create_order;
.fi
.RE
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2022 Oracle Corporation
.P
Licensed under the Universal Permissive License v 1.0
as shown at 
https://oss.oracle.com/licenses/upl
.SH "SEE ALSO"
statement(1rwl), cursorloop(1rwl), declaration(1rwl), randomproceduredeclaration(1rwl)
