.TH randomstringdeclaration "1rwl" "July 2022" "RWP*Load Simulator" "Program Syntax"
.SH NAME
randomstringdeclaration \- RWP*Load Simulator declare a random string
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
randomstringdeclaration ::=
  [ \fBprivate\fR ] \fBrandom string array\fR identifier
  \fB(\fR randomstringspec { \fB,\fR randomstringspec } \fB)\fR

randomstringspec ::=
  string expression
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Random string arrays are similar to string constants but they will randomly 
return one out of a list of strings.
A \fB random string array\fR contains a number of strings that 
are given different weights, which are used to provide the probability of evaluating
to that particular string.
.P
When a named random string is being used in an expression
one of the strings in the array will be used with the given probability.
.P
.P
Random strings can be declared with the 
.B private
keyword which means they will be local to the file where they are defined;
they cannot be declared locally.
.SH USAGE
The random string is given a name that must followed by a parenthesized
list of string constants with weights.
Weights are double values, they cannot be negative and the sum of them must be positive.
The weights will be scaled to probabilities in the range [0;1] and when you use the random 
string, one of the strings will be returned with that probability.
A string with weight zero will never be returned
and there must be at least one string in the list.
.P
Random strings cannot be used as the variable for the
.B bind
attribute of a SQL statement.
.SH EXAMPLE
Here is a short example:
.P
.nf
random string array maybe ( "yes" 20, "no" 70, "maybe" 10);
printline maybe, maybe, maybe, maybe, maybe, maybe, maybe;
.fi
.P
This declares the variable 
.B maybe
as a random string array with three entries.
Whenever 
.B maybe
is used in a concatenation, one of the three entries will be returned,
and each entry will be returned with a certain probability.
In this case, the weights are given as 20, 70 and 10,
and because the sum of these is 100, these values effectively are percentages.
A few executions of this might give:
.P
.nf
no no maybe no no no no
no yes no no no no no
no no yes maybe no yes yes
.fi
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2023 Oracle Corporation
.br
Licensed under the Universal Permissive License v 1.0
as shown at https://oss.oracle.com/licenses/upl
.SH "SEE ALSO"
declaration(1rwl), string(1rwl), concatenation(1rwl)
