.TH rwlerror "1rwl" "July 2022" "RWP*Load Simulator" "Program Syntax"
.SH NAME
rwlerror \- Provide details about an error from the RWP*Load Simulator
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBrwlerror [nn ...]
.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
If RWP*Load Simulator finds an error during parse or execute, it will generate
an error message with an RWL- error number, location and error text.
The location consists of file name and line number between square brackets;
if there is a call stack, the left most file name and line number is the deepest
location in the stack.
The error text is a short description of the error.
To get further details about the error, use the rwlerror program.
.P
An example of an error is
.P
RWL-022: error at [div.rwl;5]<-[calldiv.rwl;8]: attempted division by zero
.P
which tells that at line 5 in the file div.rwl a division by zero was attempted;
this location is in a procedure that was called from line 8 in the file calldiv.rwl.
.P
Note that in most cases, operation \fIcontinues\fR after an execution error, which potentially
leads to further errors.
.SH USAGE
You simply provide one or more RWL- error numbers as arguments to \fBrwlerror\fR.
You can optionally prefix the number with RWL-.
.SH EXAMPLE
As an example, if you execute \fBrwlerror RWL-001 99 22\fR, the output will be:
.P
.RS 4
.nf
RWL-001 error: "cannot open '%s' for reading"
The file named could not be opened for reading.
This error can happen in several places including:
- processing an input file argument to rwloadsim
- the $include directive.

RWL-099 warning: "no input files"
At least one input file must be provided to rwloadsim.

RWL-022 error: "attempted division by zero"
The right operand of a / or % operation is zero,
operation continues using the left operand as result.
.fi
.RE
.SH "EXIT VALUE"
If all numbers provided are existing RWL- error numbers, rwlerror will exit with success (0).
Otherwise, it will exit with the value 1.
.SH NOTES
Error numbers are not guaranteed to be consistent between versions of rwloadsim.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2023 Oracle Corporation
.br
Licensed under the Universal Permissive License v 1.0
as shown at https://oss.oracle.com/licenses/upl
.SH "SEE ALSO"
rwloadsim(1rwl)
