.TH statement "1rwl" "July 2022" "RWP*Load Simulator" "Program Syntax"
.SH NAME
statement \- RWP*Load Simulator statement syntax
.SH SYNTAX
.nf
statement ::=
  simpledeclaration
| identifier \fB(\fR [ concatenation { \fB,\fR concatenation } ] \fB)\fR [ atclause ]
| identifier ( \fB:=\fR | \fB||=\fR | \fB+=\fR ) concatenation
| identifier ( \fB<=\fR | \fB>=\fR | \fB>>=\fR | \fB>|=\fR | \fB<|=\fR ) concatenation
| \fBnull\fR [ concatenation ]
| \fBreturn\fR [ concatenation ]
| \fBexit\fR concatenation
| \fBbreak [ querynotification ] \fR
| \fBshift\fR
| \fBwait\fR expression
| \fBsystem\fR concatenation [ \fB,\fR identifier ]
| \fBgetrusage\fR
| regexsearch
| regexsubstitute
| regexextract
| compoundstatement
| filestatement
| printfstatement
| databasestatement
| sqlstatement
| identifier [ atclause ]
| \fBabort\fR

terminatedstatement ::=
  statement \fB;\fR
| embeddedsqltext 
| embeddedsqltext atclause \fB;\fR

statementlist ::= { terminatedstatement }

.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Executable statements that include assignments, procedure calls, and many more
execute actual code.
.SH "SIMPLE STATEMENTS"
.PP
\fBidentifier( ... )\fR
.RS 4
An identifier followed by a potentially empty list of comma-separated expressions
inside a set of parentheses
is a procedure call.
If an at clause is provided, the execution will be against the specified database.
.RE
.PP
\fBassignment\fR
.RS 4
An identifier followed by one of the assignment operators and a concatenation
modifies the variable on the left side.  
The \fB:=\fR operator is an ordinary assignment, the \fB+=\fR operator adds the value
of the concatenation to the variable, the \fB||=\fR operator appends the value of the 
concatenation to the variable.
.PP
Assignments are not expressions, so you cannot do something like:
.PP
a := b := 0;
.PP
The assignment operators \fB>=\fR, \fB>>=\fR, \fB<=\fR, \fB>|=\fR, \fB<|=\fR are used
with files to respectively open for write, append, read, write to a pipeline or
read from a pipeline.
See filestatement(1rwl) for details.
.PP
.RE
\fBnull\fR
.RS 4
The null command does nothing.
If it is followed by a concatenation that concatenation is calculated and its result
is ignored.
.RE
.PP
\fBreturn\fR
.RS 4
Return execution from a procedure or a function.
In a function the return keyword must be followed by a concatenation which will be the
return value.
.RE
.PP
\fBbreak\fR
.RS 4
Break out of the innermost loop or execute block and continue execution
after the \fBend\fR keyword that finishes that loop or execute block.
If the loop is a cursor loop, the cursor will be canceled.
.P
The \fBquerynotification\fR option can only be used inside a query notification 
callback as explained in cqnthread(1rwl).
.RE
.PP
\fBexit\fR
.RS 4
Exit from your rwloadsim program with the provided exit value; this cannot be done
from inside a procedure or function.
If you do not have an explicit \fBexit\fR, the exit code will be zero if there are
no syntax or runtime errors, otherwise non-zero.
Note that if there are syntax errors in your code before an \fBexit\fR statement,
the exit statement may not be executed.
.RE
.PP
\fBshift\fR
.RS 4
Shift positional arguments $2, $3, etc. once to the left and reduce the argument
counter $# by one.  
Note that the right most argument will stay unchanged.
.RE
.PP
\fBwait\fR
.RS 4
Suspend execution for a number of seconds which is a double.
If a database session is held, the session will not be released during the wait.
.RE
.PP
\fBsystem\fR
.RS 4
The concatenation will be executed as an operating system command. 
If a comma and an identifier is present, the identifier must be a string
and stdout from the command will
be saved in it after removing any terminating newline.
Note that the exit code from the operating system command will be ignored;
if you need the return value, use the system function in stead.
.RE
.PP
\fBgetrusage\fR
.RS 4
Call the getrusage function filling in values for the usrseconds and sysseconds variables.
.RE
.PP
\fBabort\fR
.RS 4
Perform an immediate abort of the rwloadsim program by simply calling exit(3).
This should only used in abnormal circumstances.
.RE
.PP
\fBstatementlist\fR
.RS 4
A statement list is a potentially empty sequence of statements
each followed by a terminating \fB;\fR. 
They are used in compound statements such as procedures, loops, etc.
.RE
.PP
\fBidentifier\fR 
.RS 4
An identifier that is not followed by an open parenthesis must be a SQL statement,
see sqlexecution(1rwl).
.RE
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2022 Oracle Corporation
.br
Licensed under the Universal Permissive License v 1.0
as shown at https://oss.oracle.com/licenses/upl
.SH "SEE ALSO"
regexsearch(1rwl), regexsubstitute(1rwl), regexextract(1rwl), compoundstatement(1rwl),
filestatement(1rwl), printfstatement(1rwl), sqldeclaration(1rwl), sqlexecution(1rwl),
sqlstatement(1rwl), atclause(1rwl), databasestatement(1rwl),
expression(1rwl), concatenation(1rwl), rwloadsim(1rwl), cqnthread(1rwl)
