.TH sysres "1rwl" "September 2020" "RWP*Load Simulator" "Program Syntax"
.SH NAME
sysres \- RWP*Load Simulator sysres table
.SH DESCRIPTION
The sysres table is not being used by rwloadsim itself; the user is supposed to arrange for values
to be inserted into the table.  
To use this table, your rwl program or one of your rwl programs in a multi-process run
must include a thread that every second executes 
queries against e.g. gv$ views of your database being tested.
The values should be inserted into this table.
The table is prepared to contain values from several independent queries, which is done via 
different values for the resname column.
.P
The table is being used in several standard workloads.
.SH DECLARATION
.nf
create table sysres
( runnumber number not null
, second number not null
, resname varchar2(10) not null
, constraint sysres_pk primary key(runnumber, resname, second)
, val1 number
, val2 number
, val3 number
, val4 number
, val5 number
, val6 number
, val7 number
, val8 number
, val9 number
)
.fi
.SH COLUMNS
\fBrunnumber\fR
.RS 4
You must arrange for your rwloadsim program to insert the value of the runnumber variable
into this column.
.RE
.P
\fBsecond\fR
.RS 4
You must arrange for your rwloadsim program to insert the value of runseconds
into this column.
.RE
.P
\fBresname\fR
.RS 4
You must arrange for your rwloadsim program to insert a text into this column that
can be used to identify the type of results inserted into the valN columns.
.RE
.P
\fBval1 val2 ...\fR
.RS 4
The usage is fully user dependent, they should e.g. be based on appropriate queries against
gv$ views.
.RE
.P
.SH EXAMPLE
You can arrange for your rwloadsim program (only one in case of a multi-process run) to
query gv$sys_time_model once per second for the values of 'DB time' and 'DB CPU',
and insert those values into the sysres table with the text "TIM" for resname and using
val1 and val2 for the two values retrieved from gv$sys_time_model.
.P
After execution you can subsequently execute a query against the sysres table and e.g. use
the results for graphing purposes.
.SH NOTES
When running queries for reporting there are rounding effects, and you 
.I cannot
join the column named second in the sysres table to the same column in other tables or views
that have a second column.
If used for graphing, your graphing tool should however align graphs properly assuming the values
of the second columns from different tables or views are shown against the same axis.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2021 Oracle Corporation
.P
Licensed under the Universal Permissive License v 1.0
as shown at https://oss.oracle.com/licenses/upl
.SH "SEE ALSO"
statistics(1rwl), identifier(1rwl), statement(1rwl), oltp(2rwl)
