.TH threadexecution "1rwl" "September 2020" "RWP*Load Simulator" "Program Syntax"
.SH NAME
threadexecution \- RWP*Load Simulator start and control threads
.SH SYNTAX
.nf
threadexecution ::= 
\fBrun\fR thread \fB;\fR { thread \fB;\fR } \fBend\fR [ \fBrun\fR ]

thread ::= 
\fBthreads\fR expression [ atclause ]
  statementlist
\fBend\fR [ \fBthreads \fR ] 

.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The run statement is the primary means in the RWP*Load Simulator
to simulate actual workload, which it does by starting threads
and waiting for these to complete.
Threads are grouped, and all threads in each group execute the same.
.SH USAGE
Each group of threads consists of a specified number of threads that execute
the same list of statements; the number of threads (which must be zero or larger)
is provided as the expression after the 
.B threads
keyword.
Similarly to the 
.B execute
statement, you can optionally provide an at clause to specify a database that
the threads will use while executing the list of statements.
.P
The threads will be started using the threading interface of Oracle Call Interface
and the threads will start executing immediately and will finish when the last statement
in the list finishes.
To have threads start actual work at a known time, you must use the control loop with
some
.B start
time.
You must similarly use a control loop if you want threads to run for some period of time
using the
.B stop
option in the control loop.
.P
Variables except those with the
.B threads sum
attribute and files open for reading
will initially have their values from the main program.
At thread start
.B threads sum
variables will have the value zero and the value will be added to the value
in main when threads complete.
Files open for reading will be closed in threads.
.P
It is common that different threads should execute different workloads, which can be achieved
in two different ways:
.P
If the work to be performed has a different nature, say some threads execute business logic 
while others execute dba work, you start these as different groups of threads i.e. using 
multiple 
.B threads ... end
keywords.
You would often also use different at clauses for these.
.P
If you want your threads to emulate different types of business logic that each 
is implemented in some procedure, use a single thread group - possibly with many threads -
that all execute some random procedure.
.SH EXAMPLE
The following example shows a total of 11 threads being started.
.P
The first ten will start at the common start time and
10 times per second 
(i.e. with a random arrival rate of 0.1s between each)
randomly execute one the three types of business logic.
Assuming each of the three business logic procedures include some sql
processing, and assuming the database named mydb uses a session pool,
a database session will be acquired and released at the begin and end
of each procedure call.
.P
The last thread will call the procedure syswork() every 10s.
.P
All threads will run for 300 seconds.
.P
.RS 4
.nf
procedure abc() ... end;
procedure def() ... end;
procedure xyz() ... end; 

random procedure array doit (abc 5, def 70, xyz 25);

procedure syswork() ... end;

run
  threads 10 at mydb
    for queue every erlang2(1/10) stop 300 loop
      doit();
    end;
  end;
  threads 1 at systemdb
    for start 10 every 10 stop 300 loop
      syswork();
    end loop;
  end threads; 
end;
.nf
.RE
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2022 Oracle Corporation
.br
Licensed under the Universal Permissive License v 1.0
as shown at https://oss.oracle.com/licenses/upl
.SH "SEE ALSO"
controlloop(1rwl), statement(1rwl), atclause(1rwl), proceduredeclaration(1rwl), randomproceduredeclaration(1rwl)
