.TH RWL "1rwl" "September 2020" "RWP*Load Simulator" "Program Syntax"
.SH NAME
atclause \- provide a database for use in rwloadsim
.SH SYNTAX
.nf
atclause ::=
  \fBat\fR identifier
| \fBat\fR \fBdefault\fB 
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The atclause is used in several rwloadsim statements where database activity, i.e. execution
of sql statement take place.
The purpose is to actively choose one of the declared databases.
If you
.I do not
use an atclause, the database declared with the \fBdefault\fR attribute will be used.
.PP
To understand how the atclause is used, it is important
to understand when connect and disconnect takes 
place.
In the typical cases, the choice of 
database is determined at compile time before actual execution of code takes 
place.
Most simulation runs will have one run command often with multiple 
threads that each at some point in time execute a control loop.
Whenever a 
procedure with some SQL in it (normally inside a control loop) is executed, rwloadsim
will ensure there is a database session upon start of the procedure,
and potentially release it later
upon exit.
If the database is dedicated the database logon and logoff is 
already done (at the start/end of rwloadsim or a thread), so ensuring a 
database is effectively a no-op.
In the other cases, an actual database session 
will be acquired, either through a complete logon, or from a session pool or 
DRCP pool.
.P
This mechanism is an important part of rwloadsim, and it is also 
what is behind the statistics gathering, where both the time to get a database 
and time to actually perform database work is registered.
This mechanism applies in the following cases when an atclause is used
outside a declared procedure or function, i.e. directly at the "main level" of 
your rwloadsim code:
.TP
.B "procedurecall() at database;"
.TP 
.B "sqlstatement at database;"
.TP
.B "execute at database; ... end;"
When any of these is found directly in your main program, a database session 
will be acquired, the code will be executed and the session will be released. 
In case the named database is marked dedicated, a database session will already 
exist for the entire duration of execution of rwloadsim. 
.P
.nf
\fBrun\fR
  \fBthreads N at database; \fR
   \fB...\fR
  \fBend;\fR
\fBend;\fR
.fi
.IP
When threads are started and an explicit database is named, the entire thread 
will use that database.
If the database is declared dedicated (or thread 
dedicated), an actual logon will be performed when the thread starts and logoff 
will be performed when it terminates.
Otherwise (i.e. with any pooling), 
whenever the first procedure executing SQL (or with statistics attribute) is 
called, that procedure will acquire and release a database session at start and 
exit. 
Note that any rollback or commit executed is always against the database 
session that is in use as a result of this mechanism; this implies two phase 
commit it not supported.  
.PP
If you are using the at clause at any other place (typically inside a declared 
procedure), the behavior is somewhat different.
In such cases, any existing 
database session will be "stacked", and a new database session will be acquired 
from a session pool as a completely new database connection for the duration of 
the SQL, procedure call or execution block.
The session will be released or a 
disconnect will be done after finishing the SQL, procedure call or execution 
block.
As sessions are acquired and released, only databases that have real 
client side pooling (session pool or reconnect) can be used.
Note that only 
queries can be executed using this approach.
.PP
If you use \fBat default\fR inside a procedure, the effect is to use the database 
that was chosen at compile time for the top level procedure or thread being 
executed; this is not necessarily the database that has the default attribute. 
Take this example: 
.PP
.nf
procedure copytodest()
  sql selsource select ... end;
  sql insdest insert ... end;

  for selsource at sourcedb loop
    insdest at default; # destdb would imply a new session!
  end loop;
  commit; # always against the effective database in use
end;
copytodest() at destdb;
.fi
.PP
When the procedure copytodest() is being called at the last line above, the 
named database (destdb) is being used during the call.
Inside the procedure, a 
cursor loop is being executed selecting rows from the named database 
(sourcedb), and for each row returned, the SQL insdest is executed against the 
actual database session used by the procedure.
This is the same database later 
used when commit is executed.
Effectively, rows are copied from one database to 
another.
Any array interface - for both the query and the insert - will be used.
Note that two-phase commit is not supported. 
.SH BUGS
The exact semantics of these "stacked at-clauses" is somewhat obscure
and may change in a later 
release. 
.P
Getting two-phase-commit supported will be a major project and is very 
unlikely to happen.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2020 Oracle Corporation
.br
Licensed under the Universal Permissive License v 1.0
as shown at https://oss.oracle.com/licenses/upl
.SH "SEE ALSO"
databasedeclaration(1rwl), statement(1rwl)
