.TH conditional "1rwl" "September 2020" "RWP*Load Simulator" "Program Syntax"
.SH NAME
conditional compilation \- RWP*Load Simulator directives for conditional compilation
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B $if 
expression
.B $then
rwl code [
.B $else 
rwl code ]
.B $endif
.SH DESCRIPTION
The RWP*Load Simulator allows conditional compilation of code similarly to 
how the C preprocessor does it using #if.  
.P
This is achieved using the three directives \fB$if $then\fR, \fB$else\fR, \fB$endif\fR
where the else part is optional.
The 
.B $if $then
directive takes a simple expression that does not include function calls
(neither most standard functions nor user defined functions);
the simplified expression must be between
.B $if
and
.B $then
and all must be on the same source line.
If the expression is non-zero, the code until a subsequent
.B $else
is compiled,
otherwise the code after
.B $else
and until
.B $endif
is compiled.
The $else part can be omitted.
.P
The expression that is between the
.B $if
and
.B $then
directives can only consist of constants
(including environment variables such as $USER) or global or public variables
of type integer, double or string,
the function access() or the function defined().
No other standard or declared functions can be used.
.P
The excluded part of your code must still consist of valid rwloadsim
input as it is still being scanned; only parsing is not done for the excluded part.
.P
Most other directives, specifically also the $include directive,
found inside an excluded part of your code will not be used.
.P
The only exception to this rule are the
.BR $useroption , $userswitch
and
.B $longoption
directives;
there are used during the initial early scan of the first .rwl file, during which 
.B $if $then
processing does
.I not
take place.
Effectively, these directives dealing with options cannot be excluded using conditional 
compilation.
.P
The
.B $if $then $else $endif
directives can be nested.
.P
Except that 
.B $if
and
.B $then
and the expression 
.I must
be on the same line, these directives are not line oriented like processing in the C-preprocessor
is.  
.SH EXAMPLES
Use an environment variable to control some behavior
.P
.RS 4
$if $PRECISION = "HIGH" $then $dformat:%.8f $endif
.RE
.P
Include a file if it actually exists preventing errors about non existing file:
.P
.RS 4
.nf
$if access("myfile.rwl","rf") $then
  $include:"myfile.rwl"
$endif
.fi
.RE
.P
This example shows that you can very well use the values of variables that
have been calculated earlier in your main program;
the call to
.B system
is performed directly as it is being parsed and the value of the 
userid variable is therefore available for the
.B $if $then
directive.
.P
.RS 4
.nf
string userid;
null system("id -nu",userid);
$if userid = "root" $then
  # This part is compiled if root
$else
  # This part is compiled otherwise
$endif
.fi
.P
.RE
This last example shows that conditional compilation can be used
to include or exclude single keywords.
The example will declare a variable if it has not already been declared
and in either case assign 0 to it.
.P
.RS 4
$if !defined(counter) $then integer $endif counter := 0;
.P
.RE
.SH BUGS
Due to the way input scanning takes place, you cannot have
.I multiple
$if $then on the
.I same
input line.  
The error reporting if this is attempted is obscure and incomprehensible.
If you need nested $if $then constructs to achieve nesting,
simply use multiple input lines such that each
$if $then is on its own.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2020 Oracle Corporation
.PP
Licensed under the Universal Permissive License v 1.0
as shown at https://oss.oracle.com/licenses/upl
.SH "SEE ALSO"
rwloadsim(1rwl), directive(1rwl), include(1rwl), function(1rwl)
