.TH histogram "1rwl" "September 2020" "RWP*Load Simulator" "Program Syntax"
.SH NAME
rwlman \- RWP*Load Simulator histogram table and runres_a, fractiles views
.SH DECLARATION
.nf
create table histogram
( runnumber number not null
, procno    number not null
, vname     varchar2(30) not null
, buckno    number not null
, bucktim   number as (power(2.0,(buckno-19))) virtual
, bcount    number
, ttime     number (*,6)
, constraint histogram_pk primary key(runnumber, procno, vname, buckno)
)
.fi
.P
.nf
create or replace view histogram_a
( runnumber
, pcount
, vname
, buckno
, bucktim
, bcount
, ttime
, atime
)
.fi
.P
.nf
create view fractiles
( runnumber
, vname
, bucktim
, bcount
, fractile
)
.fi
.SH COLUMNS
\fBrunnumber\fR
.RS 4
This is the number that uniquely identifies a run.
.RE
.P
\fBprocno pcount\fR
.RS 4
In single process runs, procno is zero, in multi-process runs, it gets its value from the Operating
System process number of from the -p option to rwloadsim.  
In the aggregate view, runres_a, the total process count is in the pcount column.
.RE
.P
\fBvname\fR
.RS 4
This is the name of the procedure being executed.
.RE
.P
\fBwtime\fR
.RS 4
Total time in seconds spent waiting to get a session from a session pool.
For dedicated database, this time is zero.
.RE
.P
\fBecount\fR
.RS 4
Total number of executions of the procedure.
.RE
.P
\fBtcount\fR
.RS 4
Number of threads having an execution of this procedure.
.RE
.P
\fBavgw, avge\fR
.RS 4
Average time spent waiting for a session respectively executing the procedure.
.RE
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2020 Oracle Corporation
.P
Licensed under the Universal Permissive License v 1.0
as shown at https://oss.oracle.com/licenses/upl
.SH "SEE ALSO"
statistics(1rwl)
