.TH RWL "1rwl" "September 2020" "RWP*Load Simulator" "Program Syntax"
.SH NAME
identifier, variable \- rwl program syntax for identifiers and variables
.SH SYNTAX
.nf
identifier ::=
  ( \fBa\fR | \fBb\fR ... \fBz\fR | \fBA\fR | \fBB\fR ... \fBZ\fR { \fBa\fR | \fBb\fR ... \fBz\fR | \fBA\fR | \fBB\fR ... \fBZ\fR | \fB_\fR | \fB0\fR | \fB1\fR ... \fB9\fR )
| ( \fB$\fR | \fB0\fR | \fB1\fR ... \fB9\fR { \fB0\fR | \fB1\fR ... \fB9\fR } )
| \fB$# \fR
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The RWP*Load Simulator uses identifiers to name variables, procedures, etc.
Ordinary identifiers are sequences of upper and lower case letters followed by upper or low
case letters, underscore or digits.
In addition to these, $# and a $ followed by digits are identifiers.
.PP
The is one single name-scope for all identifiers and you can e.g. not have a sql statement
and an integer with the same name.
.PP
.SH "PREDEFINED VARIABLES"
The following lists predefined variables that all are read only.
.TP 14
.B threadnumber 
An integer variable that is assigned a unique number in each worker thread;
numbering starts at 1. It can be used for e.g. debugging, printing, etc.
.TP
.B runnumber 
An integer variable that uniquely identifies each run, it is maintained as a database sequence in the results database, it is valid in the main thread and in worker threads if a results database is provided.
.TP
.B loopnumber 
An integer variable that is used internally in control loops.
It is initialized to 1 when a control loop starts and is incremented by 1 for every execute in the block; it can e.g. be used for debug printing as needed.
.TP
.B everyuntil 
A double variable that is used in control loop.
For every loop, it is calculated as the expected timestamp to start the next loop.
.TP
.B runseconds 
A double variable, which returns the timestamp with microsecond resolution since the
common start time of all control loops in threads.
It is available in both the main and worker threads, and the value can be negative.
It cannot be used to do SQL bind.
.TP
.B usrseconds 
A double variable that contains the user time in seconds from the last call to the getrusage statement.
.TP
.B sysseconds 
A double variable that contains the system time in seconds
from the last call to the getrusage statement.
.TP
.B oraerror
An integer variable that contains the Oracle error number of the most
recently executed SQL statement.
As an example, if executing a single row query that returns no rows, its contents will be 1403.
.TP
.B oraerrortext
A string variable that contains the Oracle error text of the most recently executed SQL statement
stderr
A file variable that can be used in write/writeline statements to write output to stderr.
.TP
.B stdout
A file variable that refers to stdout.
Mostly useful with fflush when using the output from rwloadsim in a pipeline.
.TP
.B stdin
A file variable that refers to stdin;
it can be used in read loops to make rwloadsim part of a pipeline.
.TP 
.B hostname
A string variable that gets its value from gethostname and which is
inserted into the repository table, rwlrun.
The value is otherwise not used by rwloadsim.
.TP
.B "$1, $2, etc"
String variables that are made available as positional arguments when e.g. the -A option is used.
The shift statement shifts these once to the left without modifying the right most of them.
.TP
.B $#
Integer variable containing the number of positional arguments.
Reduced by 1 for every call to shift.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2020 Oracle Corporation
.br
Licensed under the Universal Permissive License v 1.0
as shown at https://oss.oracle.com/licenses/upl
.SH "SEE ALSO"
simpledeclaration(1rwl), statement(1rwl), declaration(1rwl)
expression(1rwl)
